Q1: Regarding Louis Pasteur’s experiments with the S-neck flask, which of the following statements is TRUE?
Answer: The possibility of contamination was removed

Q2: The classification system based on the cellular organization of organisms determines three domains consisting of Bacteria, Archaea, and
Answer: Eukarya

Q3: Robert Koch identified the cause of
Answer: tuberculosis

Q4: Microorganisms are involved in each of the following processes EXCEPT
Answer: smog production

Q5: The name of Alexander Fleming is associated with
Answer: Antibacterial chemotherapy

Q6: Among the most important emerging diseases in the last decade was
Answer: H1N1 influenza

Q7: Which of the following staining procedures use(s) heat to drive the stain in?
Answer: acid-fast stain

Q8: Which of the following has peptidoglycan as a leading constituent part of the cell wall?
Answer: Gram-positive bacteria

Q9: The common word for bacteria which are helically curved rods is
Answer: Spirilla

Q10: The bacteria deficient in cell wall is
Answer: Mycoplasma

Q11: Peptidoglycan is found only in the bacterial
Answer: cell wall

Q12: The microorganisms that grow best in a low-oxygen environment is called a
Answer: microaerophile

Q13: The term obligate anaerobe refers to an organism that
Answer: is killed by oxygen

Q14: Generation time of Escherichia coli is
Answer: 20 minutes

Q15: Organisms that require oxygen to live
Answer: Obligate aerobes

Q16: If 15 colonies are on the plate of 1/1000 dilution per ml, then what would be the number of cells per ml in the initial sample?
Answer: 16000

Q17: Depending on Oxygen requirement the jar in the figure is used to grow what type of bacteria?
Answer: Obligate Anaerobes

Q18: Which of the following methods of physical control non-specifically alters proteins and nucleic acids?
Answer: Ultraviolet radiation

Q19: One of the first chemicals used by Lister to prevent surgical infections was:
Answer: carbolic acid

Q20: Which of the following is suitable for use on tissues for microbial control to prevent infection?
Answer: antiseptic

Q21: Which of the following microbial control methods does not actually kill microbes or inhibit their growth but instead removes them physically from samples?
Answer: filtration

Q22: Which of the following peroxogens is widely used as a household disinfectant, is inexpensive, and breaks down into water and oxygen gas?
Answer: hydrogen peroxide

Q23: The plasmid-mediated properties is/are
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q24: The spread of disease agents via contaminated water is an example of vehicle transmission
Answer: True

Q25: Which one of the following does NOT belong to Alphaproteobacteria?
Answer: Staphylococcus

Q26: Which of the following lacks a cell wall?
Answer: Mycoplasma

Q27: Which of the following is true about mycoplasma?
Answer: All the above

Q28: Which of the following is true about fungi
Answer: Eukaryotes

Q29: Which of the following is colonizing majority of insects?
Answer: Wolfachia

Q30: The phylogenetic relationship in proteobacteria is based on studies
Answer: Rima

Q31: Which of the following statements about exotoxins is generally FALSE?
Answer: They are resistant to heat

Q32: Which of the following is NOT a membrane-disrupting toxin?
Answer: A-B toxin

Q33: Endotoxins are
Answer: part of the gram-negative cell wall

Q34: The fimbriae of Neisseria gonorrhea and enteropathogenic E. Coli are examples of adhesins and ligands
Answer: True

Q35: Which of the following(s) is/are obligate anaerobes?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q36: All of the following are examples of entry via the parenteral route EXCEPT
Answer: hair follicle

Q37: An antibiotic that attacks the LPS layer would be expected to have a narrow spectrum of activity.
Answer: True

Q38: Which one of the following does NOT belong with the others?
Answer: streptomycin

Q39: Penicillin and streptomycin display the same mode of action.
Answer: true

Q40: The antibiotic tetracycline binds to the 30S subunit of the ribosome, as shown in Figure 1. The effect is to
Answer: interfere with the attachment of the tRNA to mRNA-ribosome complex.

Q41: The antibiotic cycloheximide binds to the 60S subunit of the ribosome, as shown in Figure 2. The effect is to
Answer: Prevent polypeptide elongation in eukaryotes.

Q42: One of the advantages of using two antibiotics together is that this can prevent drug resistance
Answer: True

Q43: Drug resistance can be developed only in gram-negative bacteria.
Answer: 0

Q44: Which of the following antimicrobial agents has the fewest side effects?
Answer: penicillin

Q45: Which of the following drugs does NOT act by competitive inhibition?
Answer: streptomycin

Q46: Vaccination is available for all the following EXCEPT
Answer: botulism

Q47: Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of Bacillus anthracis?
Answer: produces endotoxins

Q48: Which respiratory pathogen produces a highly potent exotoxin inhibiting protein synthesis?
Answer: Corynebacterium diphtheriae

Q49: Which one of the following produces the most potent exotoxin?
Answer: Corynebacterium diphtheria

Q50: Which of the following requires treatment with both antibiotics and antitoxins?
Answer: diphtheria

Q51: The patient has vesicles and scabs over her forehead. Microscopic examination of skin scrapings shows gram-positive cocci in grapevine-like clusters. The etiology is
Answer: Staphylococcus aureus

Q52: A technician swabs the side of his face and uses the swab to inoculate a nutrient agar plate. The next day, he performs a Gram stain on the colonies. They are gram-positive cocci. You advise him that he should next look for
Answer: a coagulase reaction

Q53: The skin’s normal microbiota contain large numbers of
Answer: Gram-positive bacteria

Q54: Which of the following is the predominant pathogen associated with recurrent acute otitis media?
Answer: Streptococcus pneumonia

Q55: is the most common and most important bacteria responsible for pharyngitis?
Answer: Streptococcus Pyogenes (group A β-hemolytic)

Q56: What is the gram-type and shape of Enterobacteriaceae?
Answer: Gram-negative rods

Q57: general characteristics of all Enterobacteriaceae
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q58: What sugar is fermented by the coliforms that are NOT fermented by most enteric pathogens?
Answer: Lactose

Q59: How can you usually determine the pathogenicity of enteric bacterium?
Answer: by its ability to metabolize lactose; nonfermenters are usually pathogenic, while the fermenters are not

Q60: Which genera give the following reactions on TSI: acid but, alkaline slant, H2S positive and is a significant pathogen?
Answer: Salmonella spp

Q61: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is resistant to most of antibiotics and this is mainly due to chromosomally encoded antibiotic resistance genes and the......Of the bacterial cellular envelopes.
Answer: Low permeability

Q62: Which Microorganism is responsible for oittis externa?
Answer: Pseudomonas aeruginosa

Q63: Rice water stools" are characteristic of
Answer: Cholera

Q64: Human pathogenic bacteria is/are
Answer: All of these

Q65: Select from all the options below that are commonly used as preventative measures to control the plaque
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q66: Which of the following biochemical reaction is characteristic of Pseudomonas aeruginosa?
Answer: All of these

Q67: Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative aerobic, pathogenic, encapsulated coccobacillus of the genus Borderella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping
Answer: Cough

Q68: For brucellosis, 2 ME agglutination test is used to identity
Answer: IgM antibodies

Q69: Human transmission of Brucellae occurs by
Answer: all of these

Q70: Agglutination test for Brucella mainly identifies which class of antibodies?
Answer: igm

Q71: The most pathogenic Brucella spp for man is
Answer: B. melitensis
Q72: A positive Mantoux test indicates an area of induration of
Answer: 10 mm or more in diameter

Q73: Which of the following diagnostics tests is intended for latent tuberculosis infection?
Answer: Interferon-gamma release assay (Igra)

Q74: Which of the following diagnostics tests can be used to diagnose drug-resistant tuberculosis?
Answer: liquid culture

Q75: The ideal clinical specimen for pulmonary TB diagnosis is:
Answer: Sputum

Q76: Advantages of culture for TB compared to sputum microscopy alone include all of the following EXCEPT:
Answer: Culture, particularly by liquid media, can be faster than smear microscopy

Q77: Leptospires cannot be readily stained but can be covered with ______ and then seen
Answer: silver

Q78: Borreliae are cultured using what medium?
Answer: Kelly medium

Q79: Leptospires commonly used media is ______ medium
Answer: Fletcher’s

Q80: What is the simple staining used for?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q81: Dogs, rats and other rodents are the principle animal reservoirs of Leptospires. The organism is excited in the ______.
Answer: Urine

Q82: Rickettsia Organisms are short, nonmotile, Gram negative rods.
Answer: True

Q83: Scientist, who provided the experimental steps to prove that a specific microbe causes a specific disease, and specifically linked anthrax to Bacillus anthracis , was
Answer: Robert Koch

Q84: Which of the following regulations should be observed in order to avoid injury and infection?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q85: Food and drinks are not allowed in the laboratory primarily because they may
Answer: transfer microbes into your body.

Q86: What should you do if you need to leave the laboratory temporarily in the middle of your work?
Answer: Remove your lab coat and gloves.

Q87: Which dilution of household bleach must be used for decontamination of spilled body fluids
Answer: 1 to for 10 minutes

Q88: In Figure below, which diagram of is a gram-positive cell wall?
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q89: The negative stain is used to
Answer: visualize capsules

Q90: Which of the following techniques may be performed quantitatively to determine the number of bacteria of a particular type?
Answer: Spread plate

Q91: Prokaryotic cells store some nutrients in
Answer: infclusions

Q92: In a scanning electron microscope, objects are generally magnified
Answer: 1000 to 10,000

Q93: You are performing a Gram stain on gram-positive bacteria and you stop after the addition of the counterstain. What is the appearance of the bacteria at this point?
Answer: purple

Q94: A toxic anion (O2-) with an unpaired electron is ______
Answer: superoxide radicals

Q95: Essential organic compounds an organism is unable to synthesize
Answer: Organic growth factors

Q96: Which of the following types of media is designed to suppress the growth of unwanted bacteria and encourage the growth of desired microbes?
Answer: Selective media

Q97: Use this typical bacterial growth curve to answer the following question: Which section shows a growth phase where the number of cells dying equals the number of cells dividing?
Answer: C

Q98: Bleach is an example of which group of chemicals used for disinfection?
Answer: halogens

Q99: Which one of the following does NOT belong to the Proteobacteria?
Answer: Staphylococcus

Q100: Wolbachia infects over a million species of
Answer: Insects

Q101: Which of the following is NOT a characteristic of Neisseria?
Answer: None of them are pathogenic to humans

Q102: Which of those are Koch’s postulates?
Answer: The pathogen must be isolated from the diseased host and grown in pure culture.

Q103: Which of the following is the correct order in the taxonomic hierarchy?
Answer: Kingdom — phylum — class — order — family — genus — species

Q104: Bacteria of family Enterobacteriaceae belong to the
Answer: Gammaproteobacteria.

Q105: Botulism is caused by ingestion of a proteinaceous exotoxin; therefore, it can easily be prevented by
Answer: boiling food prior to consumption.

Q106: Which of the following methods of action would be bacteriostatic?
Answer: Inhibition of protein synthesis.

Q107: What is the best way to prevent B. Cereus food poisoning?
Answer: All of these are ways to prevent B. Cereus food poisoning.

Q108: Anthrax spores can survive in dry places such as soil for how long?
Answer: At least 50 years.

Q109: How likely is a person to die from cutaneous (skin) anthrax without treatment?
Answer: 20%

Q110: What does B. Cereus produce that causes symptoms associated with food poisoning, such as vomiting and diarrhea?
Answer: Toxins.

Q111: The most toxic exotoxin is
Answer: Botulinum toxin.

Q112: Members of the group A streptococci (GAS) cause all of the following EXCEPT
Answer: epiglottitis.

Q113: A patient has fever, difficulty breathing, chest pains, fluid in the alveoli, and a positive tuberculin skin test. Gram-positive cocci are isolated from the sputum. The patient most likely has
Answer: pneumococcal pneumonia.

Q114: The erythropenic toxin produced by a strain of Streptococcus pyogenes that was lysogenized causes
Answer: scarlet fever.

Q115: Coagulase test is used to differentiate S.epidermidisfrom S.saprophyticus
Answer: 0

Q116: Latex Agglutination test is modern diagnostic method for identification of S.aureus
Answer: True

Q117: One of the microorganisms involved in the formation of dental caries is:
Answer: S. Mutans

Q118: DISINFECTION - using physical or chemical agents to destroy microbes or their products, on inert objects or nonliving materials.
Answer: True

Q119: Chemical agents used to destroy or inhibit pathogenic microbes on tissue are.
Answer: Antiseptics

Q120: Which of the following concentration of ethanol is the most effective?
Answer: 70%

Q121: The negative stain is used to visualize endospores.
Answer: 0

Q122: Ribosomes are found in viruses.
Answer: 0

Q123: The main constituent of a Gram positive cell wall is Peptidoglycan.
Answer: 1

Q124: Obligate aerobes is microorganism that grows equally well whether or not oxygen is present
Answer: 0

Q125: Growth are referring to the number of cells, not the size.
Answer: 1

Q126: Tolerance referring to the survival of bacteria under condition in which they cannot grow.
Answer: 1

Q127: What is the key test that separates Staphylococcus aureus from other staphylococci?
Answer: Coagulase test

Q128: Nearly 80% of cholera cases can be treated with oral rehydration solution alone. Intravenous fluids are required for people with severe dehydration
Answer: 1

Q129: DNase test is used to differentiate S.epidermidisfrom S.saprophyticus
Answer: 0

Q130: Cholera is spread through intake of contaminated water or food in places that lack adequate sanitation facilities.
Answer: 1

Q131: Each of the 3 virulence factors of Bacillus anthracis i.e. the capsule, edema toxin and lethal toxin can affect the activity of macrophages.
Answer: 1

Q132: Which of the following is lactose negative?
Answer: Salmonella

Q133: Salmonellois is caused by the endotoxin of Salmonella spp
Answer: 1

Q134: The reaction(s) that is/are usually positive in Escherichia coli, is/ are
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q135: The selective medium for Enterobacter is
Answer: MacConkey agar

Q136: What is the most prevalent Enterobacteriaceae found in central nervous system infections?
Answer: Escherichia

Q137: Which test is used to differentiate S.epidermidisfrom S.saprophyticus
Answer: Novobiocin Sensitivity test

Q138: ______ test is used to differentiate Staphylococci from Enterococci
Answer: Catalase Test

Q139: CAMP test is modern diagnostic method for identification of S. aureus.
Answer: 0

Q140: Hektoen enteric agar and Salmonella-Shigella agar, are Selective media for the isolation of Shigella.
Answer: 1

Q141: EHEC secretes a Shiga-like toxin and EPEC does not.
Answer: 1

Q142: What may the negative result for a glucose test on the API 20E strip indicate?
Answer: Both a and b are correct

Q143: Which of the following genera is an anaerobic gram-negative rod?
Answer: Escherichia

Q144: Some of the tubes of the API 20E strip need to be filled with the bacterial suspension right to the very top end including the cupule area. Which are these tubes?
Answer: CIT, VP, GEL

Q145: The following tubes (ADH, LDC, ODC, H2S, URE)are underlined. Why?
Answer: Both b and c are correct

Q146: Campilobacter Jejuni
Answer: Rod-shaped and curved, Gram -, Ox Microaerophilic, Thermophilic

Q147: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is frequently associated with the hospital-acquired bacterial infection, mostly affecting immunocompromised patients. Which of the following is/are example/examples of the various means by which bacteria can transfer and cause infection to the susceptible patient?
Answer: All of the above

Q148: Multiple virulence factors play an important role in the mechanism of pathogenesis by Pseudomonas aeruginosa, one of the main virulent structural components is pili, which helps the bacteria to adhere to the cell surfaces. Which one is not the virulence factor Pseudomonas aeruginosa?
Answer: Phospholipase B

Q149: Apart from Pseudomonas aeruginosa, which one of the following gram-negative bacteria can be frequently associated with nosocomial infections?
Answer: Acinetobacter baumannii

Q150: All of the following are characteristic of Pseudomonas aeruginosa EXCEPT
Answer: gram-positive cell wall

Q151: Burkholderia pseudomallei is aerobic, gram-negative, motile, aerobic, saprophytic bacteria. It grows at 42-degree celsius in standard agar media forming mucoid colonies, cream to orange in color.
Answer: Burkholderia pseudomallei

Q152: Which of the following statements is NOT correct about the cultural characteristics of Yersinia pestis?
Answer: The colonies appear as lactose positive on macconkey agar

Q153: All of the statements given below about the Yersinia enterocolitica is correct, EXCEPT
Answer: The most common serotypes causing human gastroenteritis is O:1

Q154: What is the recommended drug regimen for Yersinia enterocolitica infections?
Answer: Doxycycline with aminoglycoside

Q155: S typhimurium and S enteritidis can cause gastroenteritis
Answer: 1

Q156: Which of the following is the selective media used for the isolation of the pathogen Yersinia enterolitica from a stool specimen?
Answer: Celfsulodin-irgasan-novobiocin agar

Q157: Rough and buff colonies on LJ medium are characteristic of
Answer: M bovis

Q158: The bacteria which is microaerophilic on primary isolation, is
Answer: M bovis

Q159: Your patient is diagnosed with a latent tuberculosis infection. Select all the correct statements that reflect this condition.
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q160: Which of the following statements about chest X-rays for TB diagnosis is FALSE?
Answer: Chest X-rays alone is sufficient to diagnose pulmonary TB

Q161: This drug is used to treat late stages of Borrelia burgdorferi
Answer: Ceftriaxone

Q162: Borrelia recurrentis infection is accompanied by sudden high fever, rigors, headache, muscle pain and weakness; febrile period is ______ to ______ays and ends abruptly with the development of an immune response.
Answer: 8 to 7

Q163: All pathogenic borreliae are ______-borne
Answer: Arthropoda

Q164: Pathogenic treponemes are thin, spiral organisms. Spiral are regular with ______ to spirals per organism.
Answer: 4-14

Q165: Endemic syphilis or bejel is caused by T. Pallidum. It is transmitted by direct contact or sharing contaminated.
Answer: Eating utensils

Q166: Which of the following statements regarding Corynebacterium diphtheriae are true?
Answer: The toxin inhibits protein synthesis

Q167: Two names of microorganisms – genus and a specific epithet (species) both are capitalized.
Answer: 0

Q168: After using an inoculating loop or needle, how they have to be sterilized
Answer: Heat the inoculating loop or needle with the alcohol burner flame until it becomes red hot

Q169: Spontaneous generation theory means that living things come from nonliving things
Answer: 1

Q170: How many levels of BSL exists?
Answer: 4

Q171: Pathogenic treponemes are thin, spiral organisms. Spiral are regular with ______ to ______ spirals per organism.
Answer: 4-14

Q172: Disinfect your work area (bench top)
Answer: at the beginning and end of lab

Q173: A plasmid is contained within the bacterial chromosome.
Answer: 0

Q174: What are normal microbiota (normal flora)?
Answer: Microbes that live on and in human body and that don't normally cause harm

Q175: Which of following bacteria has been extensively used for insect pest control (by producing toxic protein crystals)?
Answer: Bacillus thuringiensis

Q176: The Gram stain differentiates between bacteria based on the composition of their
Answer: Cell Wall

Q177: Working distance is the:
Answer: distance from the bottom of the objective lens to the specimen.

Q178: The scanning, low, and high power objectives are mounted on the
Answer: revolving nosepiece

Q179: The ratio of the velocity of light in a vacuum to its velocity in a specified medium is
Answer: refractive index

Q180: Which of the following stains is used for visualizing Mycobacterium?
Answer: Acid-fast stain

Q181: The organism which obtain their energy from chemicals are designated as
Answer: Chemotrophs

Q182: Radiation is the most widely used of the physical methods of microbial control
Answer: 0

Q183: The period between inoculation of bacteria in a culture medium and beginning of multiplication is
Answer: lag phase

Q184: Which of the following is the best technique for counting only viable cells?
Answer: Spread plate

Q185: The darkfield microscope is best used for observing the surfaces of bacterial cells and viruses
Answer: 0

Q186: The microbiological medium exact chemical composition of which is unknown is Complex medium
Answer: 1

Q187: Which of the following was the first widely used antiseptic and disinfectant?
Answer: Phenol

Q188: In urinary tract infections gender can be considered a viable predisposing factor
Answer: 1

Q189: Both normal and transient flora can become opportunistic pathogens.
Answer: 1

Q190: Urinary tract infections are the most common forms of nosocomial infections.
Answer: 1

Q191: The bacterium Helicobacter pylori, common cause of peptic ulcers, belongs to which of the following
Answer: Epsilonproteobacteria

Q192: Which of the following articles can be sterilized in an autoclave?
Answer: All of these

Q193: Escherichia coli belongs to the
Answer: Gamma proteobacteria

Q194: Organism A has 75 moles % G C, and organism B has 40 moles % G C. Which of the following can be concluded from these data?
Answer: The two organisms are unrelated.

Q195: A prokaryotic species is defined as a
Answer: group of organisms that are not composed of cells.

Q196: Bacteria typically contain multiple chromosomes.
Answer: 0

Q197: The nonsense codon(s) is/are
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q198: The phylogenetic classification of bacteria is based on
Answer: rRNA sequences.

Q199: All organisms require at least small amounts of carbon dioxide, However, some can use CO2 as their sole source of carbon. Such organisms are termed as
Answer: Autotrophs

Q200: A(n) ______ is used to prevent infection by killing or inhibiting pathogen growth on animal tissues.
Answer: Antiseptics

Q201: An organism that expends energy to grow in a habitat with a low water activity in order to maintain internal solute concentrations to retain water is
Answer: Osmotolerant

Q202: Which of the following is best to sterilize heat labile solutions?
Answer: Membrane filtration

Q203: Autotrophic bacteria are those which
Answer: make their own food

Q204: HEPA filtration removes particles and larger
Answer: 0.3 um

Q205: kills vegetative bacteria, but not spores
Answer: Boiling

Q206: Alcohols are ______ level disinfectant
Answer: Intermediate

Q207: Antiseptics
Answer: (alcohol, betadine) – can be applied to tissue, do not destroy endospores

Q208: Botulinum toxin works by preventing release of acetylcholine by synaptic vesicles
Answer: 1

Q209: You can use mouse inoculation to detect tetanus in animals.
Answer: true

Q210: The lowest concentration of antimicrobial that will prevent the growth of an organism after subculture on to antibiotic-free media is
Answer: MBC

Q211: Which of the following is NOT a product of transcription?
Answer: a new strand of DNA

Q212: Transformation is the transfer of DNA from a donor to a recipient cell
Answer: as naked DNA in solution

Q213: Genetic change in bacteria can be brought about by
Answer: All of the answers are correct

Q214: Conjugation differs from reproduction because conjugation
Answer: transfers DNA horizontally, to cells in the same generation

Q215: An enzyme that copies DNA to make a molecule of RNA is
Answer: RNA polymerase

Q216: Initial treatment for tetanus in an unimmunized person with a deep contaminated wound is
Answer: tetanus immune globulin.

Q217: Normal microbiota on the operating room staff can contribute to postoperative infections
Answer: 1

Q218: The mode of action of chloramphenicol is to inhibit protein synthesis
Answer: 1

Q219: Antifungal drugs do not affect eukaryotic cells
Answer: 0

Q220: The majority of available antimicrobial agents are effective against protozoa.
Answer: 0

Q221: Which of the following is NOT a recognized form of anthrax?
Answer: septic

Q222: Gram-negative, rod-shaped, facultatively anaerobic, positive for catalase; oxidase-negative non-motile bacteria S.typhils cause agent of shigelloses.
Answer: 0

Q223: Which of the following can contribute to postoperative infections?
Answer: using syringes more than once

Q224: Which of the following can contribute to postoperative infections?
Answer: normal microbiota on the operating room staff

Q225: Which of the following can contribute to postoperative infections?
Answer: errors in aseptic technique

Q226: Which of the following can contribute to postoperative infections?
Answer: antibiotic resistance

Q227: Twenty-five people developed symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea three to six hours after attending a church picnic where they ate a ham and green bean casserole with cream sauce. The most likely cause of this case of food intoxication is
Answer: erythrogenic toxin

Q228: The tetanus vaccine is a(n)
Answer: toxoid.

Q229: All of the following organisms causing meningitis are transmitted via the respiratory route EXCEPT
Answer: Listeria monocytogenes

Q230: The symptoms of tetanus are due to
Answer: toxin tetanosparsmin.

Q231: Streptococcus pyogenes can be differentiated from other haemolytic Streptococci on the basis of Bacitracin sensitivity
Answer: 1

Q232: The reagent used to distinguish staphylococci from streptococci is Oxidase
Answer: 0

Q233: The reagent used to distinguish staphylococci from streptococci is
Answer: Oxidase

Q234: A mannitol salt agar is designed for the isolation of Streptococcus spp.
Answer: 0

Q235: Which organism produces a toxin that causes scalded skin syndrome?
Answer: Staphylococcus aureus

Q236: Streptolysin O is
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q237: Among groups of streptococci which group causes the most severe infections?
Answer: Group A with beta hemolytic

Q238: The exfoliative toxin of Staphylococcus aureus is responsible for
Answer: scalded skin syndrome.

Q239: The M protein enhances the virulence of Streptococcus by preventing phagocytosis
Answer: 1

Q240: All of the following are normal microbiota of the skin EXCEPT
Answer: Streptococcus.

Q241: Which of the following are characteristic of the Group A beta-hemolytic streptococci
Answer: all of these is characteristic.

Q242: exotoxins are produced by all of the following gastro-intestinal pathogens EXCEPT
Answer: Acinetobacter baumannii

Q243: exotoxins are produced by all of the following gastro-intestinal pathogens EXCEPT
Answer: shigella dysenteriae

Q244: Poultry products are a likely source of infection by
Answer: Salmonella enterica

Q245: Cystitis is most often caused by
Answer: Escherichia coli.

Q246: Which of the following applies to typhoid fever?
Answer: Causative microorganism multiplies in patient phagocytes.

Q247: Bacterial intoxications differ from bacterial infections of the digestive system in that intoxications
Answer: have shorter incubation times

Q248: Chlamydia increases the risk of which of these other diseases in women?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q249: ______ test is used to differentiate Staphylococci from Streptococci
Answer: Coagulase test

Q250: E.coli turn red/ pink on MacConkey(MAC) agar, giving a positive reaction.
Answer: 1

Q251: if the number of positive tests (including the GLU test) before adding the reagents is less than 3 the strip must be reincubated for a further 24 hours (± 2 hours) without adding any reagents.
Answer: 1

Q252: in the U.S., chlamydia occurs more often than any other sexually transmitted infection (STI). Who can be infected with chlamydia?
Answer: Both men and women

Q253: Which of the following toxin resembles cholera toxin?
Answer: Labile toxin of Escherichia coli

Q254: The stool of a cholera patient resembles -
Answer: Rice water

Q255: People at risk of developing cholera include -
Answer: People with low immunity

Q256: What percentage of people die from severe, untreated cholera?
Answer: 50%

Q257: What is the incubation period for cholera?
Answer: A few hours to 5 days

Q258: All of the following bacterial pathogens given below are the example of major zoonotic diseases, EXCEPT
Answer: Leishmania tropica

Q259: Which of the following is the most common form of plague which causes swelling of the lymph nodes?
Answer: Bubonic plague

Q260: The motility of Leptospires are
Answer: Rapid and rotational

Q261: Borrelia is made up of several species of spirochetes, similar in morphology but different in pathogenic properties. Borrelia recurrents causes
Answer: Relapsing fever

Q262: Borrelia can be stained and seen under the ______
Answer: Brightfield

Q263: Borreliae are susceptible to many antibiotic but
Answer: Tetracycline

Q264: Keep hands and other objects away from your face, nose, eyes, ears, and mouth. The application of cosmetics in the laboratory is prohibited.
Answer: 1

Q265: Laboratory coats used in microbiological lab can be worn outside the laboratory.
Answer: 0

Q266: A member of a large group of unicellular microorganisms lacking organelles and an organized nucleus, including some that can cause disease is
Answer: Bacteria

Q267: Pipets are used to measure and dispense small amounts of liquids. You should draw the liquid into the pipet using your mouth.
Answer: 0

Q268: What are normal microbiota (normal flora)?
Answer: Microbes that live on and in human body and that don't normally cause harm

Q269: Antibiotics are produced by
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q270: A Solution credited to Louis Pasteur and intended to prevent food for spoilage, has been termed
Answer: Pasteurization

Q271: In classification, the taxonomic category below kingdom, members of which all have a similar general body plan, is
Answer: Phylum

Q272: The drug salvarsan, the first chemotherapeutic agent to treat syphilis, was developed in 1908-1910 by
Answer: Paul Ehrlich

Q273: A system for giving each organism a two-word scientific name that consists of the genus name followed by the species name, is called
Answer: Binomial nomenclature

Q274: Prokaryotic single-celled organisms that lack peptidoglycan in their cells walls and Live in extreme environments, are
Answer: Archea

Q275: A microorganism measures 4,5 μm in length. Its length in mm would be
Answer: 0.0045mm

Q276: Which microscope is used to see internal structures of cells in a natural state (without staining)?
Answer: phase-contrast microscope

Q277: The framework of the bacterial cell wall is
Answer: peptidoglycan

Q278: Which of the following organisms contain 70s ribosomes?
Answer: Prokaryotes

Q279: Which of the following statements is INCORRECT regarding prokaryotic cells?
Answer: they lack a plasma membrane.

Q280: Which statement is TRUE about temperature and bacterial growth?
Answer: Maximum growth occurs at the optimum temperature.

Q281: Use this typical bacterial growth curve to answer the following question: Which section shows a growth phase where the number of cells dying exceeds the number of cells dividing?
Answer: D

Q282: Organisms using organic compounds as both an energy source and a carbon source
Answer: Chemoheterotrophs

Q283: A plate count method in which inoculum is spread over the surface of a solid culture medium
Answer: spread plate method

Q284: Prodigiosin (red pigment) is produced by members of genus Serratia
Answer: 1

Q285: Is the pictured graph growth, decay, or linear or none?
Answer: Growth

Q286: Which methods achieve sterility?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q287: The three parameters of steam sterilization are
Answer: Steam under pressure, time, and temperature

Q288: Lister developed his ideas on prevention of infection during medical procedures after studying the work of
Answer: Pasteur

Q289: The Bergey’s manual of determinative bacteriology is based on the following EXCEPT
Answer: rRNA sequencing

Q290: If two organisms have similar rRNA sequences, you can conclude that they
Answer: evolved from a common ancestor

Q291: Name the bacteria used as bioremediation agents that have the ability to degrade organic solvents such as toluene,
Answer: Pseudomonas putida

Q292: Which of the following statements about archaea is FALSE?
Answer: They evolved before bacteria

Q293: Which of the following is the best evidence for a three-domain system?
Answer: Nucleotide sequences in ribosomal RNA vary between all three domains.

Q294: Emergence of infectious diseases can be attributed to which of the following
Answer: antibiotic resistance

Q295: Which of the following is NOT a reservoir of infection?
Answer: None of the answers is correct; all of these can be reservoirs of infection.

Q296: Which of the following is a fomite?
Answer: a surgical instrument

Q297: Which of the following is NOT a communicable diseases
Answer: Diabetis

Q298: Which of the following pairs is mismatched?
Answer: None of the pairs is mismatched.

Q299: The most frequently used portal of entry for pathogens is the
Answer: mucous membranes of the respiratory tract

Q300: In the presence of penicillin, a cell dies because
Answer: it undergoes lysis.

Q301: Koch's postulates were satisfied for the first time with
Answer: Bacillus anthracis

Q302: Lamisil is an allylamine used to treat dermatomycoses. Lamisil's method of action is similar to that of
Answer: azole antibiotics.

Q303: Botulism is an intoxication resulting from the ingestion of food in which C.botulinum has produced toxin.
Answer: 1

Q304: Tetanospasmin is responsible for clinical manifestations of tetanus.
Answer: 1

Q305: Who used first time the scrapings from the cowpox blisters to prevent smallpox in humans?
Answer: Edward Jenner

Q306: Which of the following bacteria is acid-fast?
Answer: Nocardia

Q307: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea is usually preceded by
Answer: extended use of antibiotics.

Q308: A 36-year-old man presents with focal central nervous system signs. Imaging shows a brain abscess. The dominant organism is an anaerobe normally found as part of the oral flora. Which of the following best fits that description?
Answer: Bacteroides fragilis

Q309: Niclosamide prevents ATP generation in mitochondria. You would expect this drug to be effective against
Answer: helminths

Q310: Initial treatment for tetanus in an unimmunized person with a deep contaminated wound is
Answer: tetanus immune globulin.

Q311: Which of the following statements about drugs that competitively inhibit DNA polymerase or RNA polymerase is FALSE?
Answer: They cause cellular plasmolysis

Q312: Penicillin was considered a "miracle drug" for all of the following reasons EXCEPT
Answer: It was the first antibiotic

Q313: The bacteria involved in the production of dental caries is/are
Answer: Streptococcus mutans

Q314: Staphylococcus aureus is responsible for all of the following EXCEPT
Answer: acne.

Q315: What sugar is fermented by all members of the family Enterobacteriaceae?
Answer: Glucose

Q316: Which one of the given statements is not true about Pseudomonas?
Answer: All species cause diseases in humans only

Q317: Pseudomonas aeruginosa produces a water-soluble blue color pigment called pyocyanin and color pigment pyoverdin.
Answer: Green

Q318: Patients with cystic fibrosis infection suffer from a chronic lung infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The bacterial growth results in ______ formation and clogs the lung airways.
Answer: Biofilm

Q319: Isolation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from a mucoid sputum specimen obtained from a patient with cystic fibrosis is usually done by standard culture method. After the incubation, mucoid bacterial colonies can be seen on the agar media which have a grape-like odor, what are the best growth temperature and incubation period for the given bacteria?
Answer: 42 degree Celsius for 48 hours

Q320: All of the following statements for Pseudomonas aeruginosa are true, except:
Answer: It does not grow well at 426

Q321: All of the statements given below are correct about the diagnosis of Yersinia pseudotuberculosis related infection in humans, EXCEPT
Answer: Genetic features are similar to Yersinia enterolitica

Q322: Which of the following species of Pasteurella is present as normal flora of respiratory tract and guts of mice and rats?
Answer: Pasteurella pneumotropica

Q323: In addition to membrane lipopolysaccharide endotoxins, Yersinia pestis possesses other virulent plasmids. They include
Answer: All of the above

Q324: Which is the most common type of plague?
Answer: Bubonic Plague

Q325: In the natural environment, Legionella lives within amoebae such as Acanthamoeba spp
Answer: 1

Q326: Mycoplasma is the smallest of known free-living, self-replicating prokaryotic cells - 125-250 nm in size , comparable to chlamydias or large viruses.
Answer: 1

Q327: Etiological agent for disease known as Primary Atypical Pneumonia (“Walking Pneumonia”) is Mycoplasma pneumoniae.
Answer: 1

Q328: Mycoplasma lacks cell wall and stains poorly or not at all.
Answer: 1

Q329: Yersinia pestis (formerly Pasteurella pestis) is a gram-negative, non-motile, rod-shaped, coccobacillus bacterium, with no spores.
Answer: 1

Q330: A 52-year old female patient is receiving medical treatment for a possible tuberculosis infection. The patient is a U.S. resident but grew-up in a foreign country. She reports that as a child she received the BCG vaccine (bacille Calmete-Guerin vaccine). Which physician’s order below would require the nurse to ask the doctor for an order clarification?*
Answer: PPD (Mantoux test)

Q331: A patient has a positive PPD skin test that shows an 8 mm induration. As the nurse you know that:*
Answer: The patient will need a chest x-ray and sputum culture to confirm the test results before treatment is provided.

Q332: A 48-year old homeless man, who is living in a local homeless shelter and is an IV drug user, has arrived to the clinic to have his PPD skin test assessed. What is considered a positive result?*
Answer: 10 mm induration

Q333: The least severe of the rickettsial infections is Rocky Mountain fever.
Answer: 0

Q334: Ticke-borne B. recurrents has shorter louse-borne infection.
Answer: 1

Q335: Borrelia recurrents when it recurs several days to weeks later is less severe but similar in course
Answer: 1

Q336: TB cannot occur in the:
Answer: None of the above

Q337: The causative agent of Buruli ulcer is
Answer: M ulcerarts

Q338: The elementary body form of Chlamydia trachomatis infects host cells which are primarily what?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q339: In the spotted fever group what organism is both the principal vector and the reservoir?
Answer: Tick

Q340: False negative Mantoux test is observed in
Answer: All of these

Q341: Brucella spp. are the cause of brucellosis, which is a zoonosis transmitted by ingesting contaminated food (such as unpasteurized milk products), direct contact with an infected animal, or inhalation of aerosols.
Answer: 1

Q342: Legionella transmission is via inhalation of water droplets from a contaminated source that has allowed the organism to grow and spread (e.g., cooling towers).
Answer: 1

Q343: Relapse that occur in Borrelia recurrents are caused by antigenic variation; ______ are changed during the course of an infection which allows them to evade the host response.
Answer: Surface antigens

Q344: There are two recognize species of Leptospires. L.interrogans and L. biblexa. L.interrogans are ______.
Answer: Pathogenic

Q345: Which of the following statements regarding Corynebacterium diphtheriae are true?
Answer: Toxin has adverse effects on cardiovascular and nervous systems

Q346: What is the primary purpose of keeping doors and windows closed during the laboratory session?
Answer: To reduce the incidence of contamination from microbes traveling in the air

Q347: When a substance is added to a solid medium which inhibits the growth of unwanted bacteria but permits the growth of wanted bacteria, it is known as
Answer: selective medium

Q348: The medium which allows the growth of more than one microorganisms of interest but with morphologically distinguishable colonies is known as
Answer: differential medium

Q349: Some organisms can synthesize organic molecules from inorganic nutrients and are termed as
Answer: Lithotrophs

Q350: The space between the cytoplasmic membrane and the outer membrane is called the periplasm.
Answer: 1

Q351: An organism has an optimal growth rate when the hydrogen ion concentration is very high. This organism is
Answer: Acidophile

Q352: For the selection of endospore-forming bacteria, a mixed culture can be heated at
Answer: 80°C for 10 minutes

Q353: Which of the following is an example of direct damage due to bacterial infection?
Answer: the invasion and lysis of intestinal cells by E. coli

Q354: Polio is transmitted by ingestion of water contaminated with feces containing polio virus. What portal of entry does polio virus use?
Answer: skin, parenteral, and mucous membranes

Q355: Undergrowth of fungi after antibiotic use is commonly referred to as a superinfection.
Answer: 0

Q356: All of the following bacteria release endotoxin EXCEPT
Answer: Clostridium botulinum.

Q357: Which organism in Table 1 most easily causes an infection?
Answer: Legionella pneumophila

Q358: Bacteria that cause periodontal disease have adhesins for receptors on streptococci that colonize on teeth. This indicates that
Answer: streptococcal colonization is necessary for periodontal disease

Q359: Which of the following antibiotics does NOT interfere with cell wall synthesis?
Answer: macrolides

Q360: The antimicrobial drugs with the broadest spectrum of activity are
Answer: tetracyclines.

Q361: Which of the following statements is FALSE?
Answer: Interferon inhibits glycolysis

Q362: Which of the following organisms would MOST likely be sensitive to natural penicillin?
Answer: Streptococcus pyogenes

Q363: Anthrax is a non-contagious disease; it does not usually spread from one person to another. The person is infected only when exposed to the infectious spores, or infected animals or their products.
Answer: 1

Q364: Patients with respiratory anthrax show flu-like symptoms, eventually causing respiratory distress.
Answer: 1

Q365: The bacteria which is predominant flora of the human gut is
Answer: Clostridium perfringens

Q366: Anthrax mostly affects animals such as pigs, cattle, horses, camels and goats.
Answer: 1

Q367: Which of the following toxin causing botulism is less toxic to human beings?
Answer: Type B

Q368: The method of successful treatment of botulism prior to the appearance of botulism symptoms involve the administration of
Answer: antitoxin

Q369: DNase test is used to differentiate S.epidermidis from S.aureus
Answer: 1

Q370: Coagulase test is modern diagnostic method for identification of S. aureus.
Answer: 0

Q371: The organ of locomotion of bacteria is
Answer: flagella

Q372: Botulism is caused by the presence of toxin developed by
Answer: Clostridium botulinum

Q373: What is the most serious pathogen within the genus Staphylococcus?
Answer: Staphylococcus aureus

Q374: The bacteria which is novobiocin resistant is
Answer: S. saprophyticus

Q375: The coagulase test is used to differentiate
Answer: Staphylococcus aureus from Staphylococcus epidermidis

Q376: PABA serves as the competitive inhibitor in the action of sulfanilamides.
Answer: 0

Q377: A major difference between EHEC and EPEC is
Answer: a Shiga-like toxin and EPEC does not

Q378: Which of the following statements about salmonellosis is FALSE?
Answer: The mortality rate is high.

Q379: In the Triple Sugar-Iron Agar Test yellow butt and red slant indicates no fermentation of glucose, fermentation lactose or sucrose
Answer: 0

Q380: Only companies and organisations in specific sectors are required to undertake Legionella risk assessments.
Answer: 0

Q381: Anyone in charge of premises can be held liable for not undertaking a Legionella risk assessment.
Answer: 1

Q382: Ureasatest is used to differentiate Escherichia coli and Proteus vulgaris
Answer: 1

Q383: Bacterial intoxications differ from bacterial infections of the digestive system in that intoxications
Answer: have shorter incubation times

Q384: A characteristic symptom of bubonic plague is
Answer: swollen lymph nodes

Q385: Which of the following is a symptom of brucellosis?
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q386: The coagulase test is used to differentiate
Answer: Staphylococcus aureus from Staphylococcus epidermidis

Q387: The toxin of Staphylococcus aureus that may result into scalded skin syndrome is
Answer: Epidermolytic toxin

Q388: Which Enterobacteriaceae are lactose fermenters?
Answer: Escherichia, klebsiella, enterobacter

Q389: Cholera can be transmitted by flies?
Answer: 1

Q390: Verotoxin 1 of Escherichia coli is similar to shiga toxin.
Answer: 1

Q391: Campylobacter jejuni cultivation requires?
Answer: Microaerophilic conditions at 42°C

Q392: The substance(s) which can be produced by strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa is/are
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q393: Which of the following determine the pathogenicity of Yersinia pestis?
Answer: F1 envelope antigen

Q394: People with reduced immunity, malnourishment, children and people with blood group O have been found to be at a higher risk for developing cholera.
Answer: 1

Q395: Which of the following determine the pathogenicity of Yersinia pestis?
Answer: Production of pigmented colonies on haemin containing media

Q396: Which of the following determine the pathogenicity of Yersinia pestis?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q397: What is the most common cause agent of a urinary tract infection( UTI)?
Answer: E.coli

Q398: What is the most prevalent Enterobacteriaceae found in bloodstream infection?
Answer: Escherichia

Q399: Which of the following bacteria is rarely associated with urinary tract infections?
Answer: Shigella spp

Q400: How did the plague enter into Europe?
Answer: By flea-bearing rats on ships

Q401: There are two recognize species of Leptospires. Linterrogans and L. biblexa.L.biblexa are Saprophytic.
Answer: 1

Q402: Borrelia is made up of several species of spirochetes, similar in morphology but different in pathogenic properties. Borrelia burgodorferi causes Lyme disease.
Answer: 1

Q403: How did the European population become infected by the plague?
Answer: Any of these

Q404: Which of the following is false regarding adverse reactions to TB drugs?
Answer: Jaundice is a common adverse effect and is self-limiting

Q405: Which of the following diagnostics tests is endorsed by WHO for extrapulmonary TB?
Answer: Xpert MTB/RIF

Q406: Which of these high-risk populations should be targeted for LTBI screening and treatment?
Answer: LTBI above

Q407: Which of the following will lower the risk of mortality in PLWH who have active TB?
Answer: Both a and c are correct

Q408: Boutoneuse fever is caused by
Answer: R. canorii

Q409: If untreated, Chlamydia can cause serious problems. What problems can it cause in women?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q410: Chlamydia has two unique growth cycle with two distinct forms. The reticulate body is the noninfectious form.
Answer: 1

Q411: assays are usually the last way Chlamydia infections are diagnosed although for LGV it is sometimes used.
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q412: Most Mycobacteria grow best in 5-10% CO2 and at 35-370 C.
Answer: 1

Q413: Both M. tuberculosis and M. bovis can cause Tb
Answer: 1

Q414: R. rickettsii, R.akari, R. coronii and R. africae form the Spotted fever group.
Answer: 1

Q415: Leptospires are aerobic and can be grown on artificial media.
Answer: 1

Q416: The symptoms of rickettsialpox is more severe than rocky mountain spotted fever.
Answer: 0

Q417: The ends of Leptospire have ______ rather than just tapering off.
Answer: Hook

Q418: The organism that causes mediterranean spotted fever is
Answer: R.conon

Q419: This causes cat-scratch disease.
Answer: Bartonella henselae

Q420: Boutoneuse fever is also known as ______ spotted fever.
Answer: Mediterranean

Q421: Scrub typhus is caused by ______.
Answer: Orientia tsutsugamushi

Q422: The Gram stain differentiates between bacteria based on the composition of their
Answer: Cell Wall

Q423: The Gram stain differentiates between bacteria based on the composition of their nucleus.
Answer: 0

Q424: Bovine spongiform encephalopathy is caused by
Answer: Prion

Q425: Germ theory of disease—the idea, that infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms, or germs, was developed by Josef Lister.
Answer: 0

Q426: Franchesko Redi demonstrated that maggots appeared only in decaying meat that had been exposed to flies –this was experiments in support of the biogenesis theory.
Answer: 1

Q427: Robert Koch won the Nobel prize for identifying the cause of the disease tetanus.
Answer: 0

Q428: The rapidly developing discipline( field) that is based on the use of microorganisms to produce some common foods and chemicals, is called
Answer: Biotechnology

Q429: Type of electron microscope which is used to study internal structure of cells is
Answer: transmission electron microscope

Q430: The Magnification of commonly used modern light microscopes is
Answer: 1500x

Q431: Which of the following statements is TRUE?
Answer: Endospores allow a cell to survive environmental changes

Q432: Which of the following organelles most closely resembles a prokaryotic cell?
Answer: mitochondria

Q433: Why does immersion oil improve resolution?
Answer: It allows light to travel at a uniform speed on its way to the lens

Q434: All of the following are true about the MANNITOL SALT AGAR (MSA) medium EXCEPT
Answer: It is chemically defined media

Q435: What is a Microbial Culture?
Answer: Microbes growing in or on culture medium

Q436: Media contain ingredients such as sodium thioglycolate that chemically combine with dissolved oxygen and deplete the oxygen in the culture medium is reducing medium
Answer: 1

Q437: is the suffix that indicates a chemical or process inhibits growth or multiplication of bacteria.
Answer: -stat

Q438: Dry Heat is the most widely used of the physical methods of microbial control
Answer: 0

Q439: Steam exposure of a material at 100°C for 20 minutes for three consecutive days is known as autoclaving.
Answer: 0

Q440: Which of the following best describes a microbial control protocol that inhibits the growth of molds and yeast?
Answer: fungistatic

Q441: The Clostridiales – the endospore-producing rod-shaped obligate anaerobs, belong to Gram –positive bacteria with the low G+C content.
Answer: 1

Q442: Which of the following concentration of ethanol is the most effective?
Answer: 70%

Q443: A pore size of ______ is often used for sterilization during filtration
Answer: 0.05-0.45 um

Q444: Burkholderia was reclassified from the gammaproteobacteria to the betaproteobacteria because
Answer: its rRNA sequence is similar to that of other members of betaproteobacteria

Q445: Cluster of spherically shaped cell, High salt tolerance, facultative anaerobes or microaerophils, motile, catalase positive( ) are all characteristics of Streptococcus spp.
Answer: 0

Q446: Which of the following is an obligatory intracellular pathogen?
Answer: Ricketsia

Q447: Lifelong immunity is conferred once an individual has had botulism and recovered
Answer: 0

Q448: Transmission of bubonic plague is by rat flea.
Answer: 1

Q449: Biofilms provide pathogens with an adhesion mechanism and aid in resistance to antimicrobial agents.
Answer: 1

Q450: All of the following organisms causing meningitis are transmitted via the respiratory route EXCEPT
Answer: Listeria monocytogenes

Q451: Endospores of C. botulinum, as a cause of infant botulism, have been recovered from honey
Answer: 1

Q452: Which of the following antibiotics is NOT bactericidal?
Answer: penicillin

Q453: Phage therapy has been used in the past as an antiviral treatment.
Answer: 0

Q454: It’s Okay to pick up broken glass with your bare hands as long as the glass is placed in the trash.
Answer: 0

Q455: DNA is constructed of
Answer: two strands of nucleotides running antiparallel

Q456: All gram-negative bacteria are classified as proteobacteria.
Answer: 1

Q457: Salmonellae can be killed by pasteurisation
Answer: 1

Q458: are intracellular parasites.
Answer: Both A and B

Q459: Which of the following does NOT affect eukaryotic cells?
Answer: ethambuto

Q460: Group I C. botulinum strains generally includes in
Answer: all types of strains (proteolytic)A, B and F

Q461: The botulism intoxication occurs due to
Answer: neurotoxin

Q462: The Bacillus cereus causes gastroenteritis by the production of an exoenterotoxin which is released in food as a result of
Answer: cell autolysis

Q463: test is used to confirm the presence of S. aureus
Answer: Coagulase test

Q464: What test allows for the differentiation of Group A streptococci from other – βhemolytic streptococci?
Answer: Bacitracin Sensitivity

Q465: A gram-positive coccus that grows in pairs or short chains and that is alpha-hemolytic and optochin-sensitive is
Answer: Streptococcus pneumonia

Q466: Which of the following(s) bacteria belong to the family Entero-bacteriaceae?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q467: Which of the following Gram-negative rod is not a blood-borne bacterial pathogen?
Answer: Shigella spp

Q468: Which of the following is the commonest species of Salmonella for causing zoonotic disease?
Answer: S typhimurium

Q469: Dysentery may be caused by
Answer: enterotoxigenic E. coli

Q470: Which of the following bacteria is associated with food poisoning due to consumption of sea fish?
Answer: Vibrio parahaemolyticus

Q471: An acute diarrhoeal disease resembling cholera can be caused due to
Answer: Aeromonas hydrophila

Q472: Which of the following does not cause wound infection following exposure to sea water or infected shellfish?
Answer: V. cholerae

Q473: The test(s) used for the assay of cholera toxin is/are
Answer: All of the above

Q474: The halophilic bacteria is/are
Answer: All of these

Q475: Which of the following bacteria is sensitive to pyrazinamide?
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q476: The asymptomatic individuals in exposure to untreated people with pneumonic plague and laboratory personnel working with handling the specimens should be given the antibiotic prophylaxis for a given period of time, what is the drug usually used for the prophylaxis?
Answer: Doxycycline

Q477: What were the symptoms of the Black Death?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q478: Rickettsia organisms can grow in yolk sacs of embryonated eggs as well as several cell lines
Answer: 1

Q479: All of the following are the possible laboratory methods used for the diagnosis of Bubonic plague, EXCEPT
Answer: Stool culture on Chocolate agar

Q480: involving Chlamydia trachomatis, which form starts the growth cycle by infecting a susceptible host cell by inducing energy-requiring active phagocytosis.
Answer: Elementary Body

Q481: Louse-borne typhus is caused by ______.
Answer: R.provazekii

Q482: C. trachomatis is a major cause of ______ in the U.S.
Answer: Sterility

Q483: in all test involving Immunoassays for Chlamydia trachoma, a positive result is considered preliminary and should be verified.
Answer: 1

Q484: The flagella is a structure which allows substances in and out of the bacteria.
Answer: 0

Q485: Blood agar is unable to cultivate the fastidious microorganisms.
Answer: false

Q486: Which of the following statements about biofilms is true?
Answer: Biofilms in your body protect mucous membranes from harmful microbes

Q487: A prokaryotic cell may possess each of the following cellular components EXCEPT
Answer: a nucleus.

Q488: The process of complete removal of all life forms including endospores is called
Answer: Sterilization

Q489: In Figure 1, which diagram shows a cell wall that is NOT decolorized by alcohol?
Answer: a

Q490: In the long-term disputes among supporters of two theories, the arguments supporting spontaneous generation were finally disproved in 19th century by
Answer: Louis Pasteur.

Q491: 50S ribosomal subunits are found in
Answer: Bacteria

Q492: Which of the following is true about structure Gram negative cell wall
Answer: include outer membrane

Q493: Peptidoglycan, a backbone of a bacterial cell wall, is also known as
Answer: murein mucopeptide

Q494: A Gram negative bacterium does not retain crystal violet stain because
Answer: bacteria have thin peptidoglycan layer

Q495: Human pathogens are
Answer: Mesophiles

Q496: A culture broth tube was very turbid at the surface but clear throughout the rest of the tube indicating that the
Answer: organism are aerobes

Q497: Great majority of Bacteria reproduce by
Answer: binary fission;

Q498: Which of the following structures allows a cell to survive adverse environmental conditions?
Answer: capsule;

Q499: Aerotolerant anaerobes are microorganisms that grow equally well whether or not oxygen is present.
Answer: 1

Q500: Freezing is the most widely used of the physical methods of microbial control
Answer: 0

Q501: The simple staining used for determine cell wall structure.
Answer: 0

Q502: Which structure acts like an “invisibility cloak” and protects bacteria from being phagocytized?
Answer: capsule

Q503: Dark ground microscopy is used for detection of
Answer: spirochetes

Q504: Cell counting can be carried out by
Answer: all of the above

Q505: Which of the following is true about mycoplasma?
Answer: Resistant to antibiotics targeting cell wall synthesis

Q506: What should you do if you suspect a patient has tuberculosis?
Answer: perform an acid-fast stain

Q507: Streptococcus pyogenes belongs to the
Answer: gram-positive bacteria

Q508: Rickettsias differ from chlamydias in that rickettsias
Answer: require an arthropod for transmission.

Q509: Which of the following bacteria is gram-positive?
Answer: Streptococcus

Q510: Mixed Cultures are suitable for the study of their cultural, morphological and biochemical properties.
Answer: 0

Q511: Which of the following statements about staphylococcal enterotoxin is FALSE?
Answer: It is produced by Staphylococcus aureus growing in the host's intestines

Q512: Which of the following contributes to the virulence of a pathogen?
Answer: numbers of microorganisms that gain access to a host, evasion of host defenses, and toxin production

Q513: Twenty-five people developed symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea three to six hours after atending a church picnic where they ate a ham and green bean casserole with cream sauce. The most likely cause of this case of food intoxication is
Answer: erythropenic toxin.

Q514: Inapparent or subclinical infections can be detected only by demonstrating a rise in antibody titer or by isolating the organism.
Answer: 1

Q515: Which of the following statements about M protein is FALSE?
Answer: It is readily digested by phagocytes

Q516: Symptoms of intense inflammation and shock occur in some gram-positive bacterial infections due to
Answer: superantigens

Q517: In Table 1, the minimal bactericidal concentration of antibiotic X is
Answer: 15 µg/ml.

Q518: In general, the LD50 for exotoxins is much greater than the LD50 for endotoxins.
Answer: 0

Q519: Community-acquired MRSA is typically more virulent than healthcare-associated MRSA.
Answer: 1

Q520: Droplet transmission - microbes are spread in mucus droplets on short distances (<1m)
Answer: 1

Q521: Antiviral drugs target viral processes that occur during viral infection.
Answer: 1

Q522: Which one of the following contribute to the incidence of nosocomial infections?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q523: The fermentation is conversion of sugar to alcohol to make wine and beer, that is done by yeasts in the absence of air.
Answer: 1

Q524: More than half of our antibiotics are
Answer: produced by bacteria

Q525: To date, most of our natural antibiotics have been found to be produced by members of what genus?
Answer: Streptomyces

Q526: Which of the following is mismatched?
Answer: Bordetella-gram-positive pleomorphic rod

Q527: Select from all the options below that are commonly used as preventive measures to control the plague.
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q528: Only microbes produce antimicrobial peptides.
Answer: 0

Q529: Which compound would be the most useful to treat candidiasis?
Answer: flu cytosine

Q530: Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea is usually preceded by
Answer: extended use of antibiotics

Q531: Which of the following best describes an endospore?
Answer: A form of bacteria that is resistant to heat and UV radiation, but cannot replicate

Q532: Impetigo is mainly caused by Group A Beta- hemolytic streptococci
Answer: 0

Q533: Which of the following is NOT a complication of infections caused by S. pyogenes
Answer: Enterocolitis

Q534: What about Streptococcus pneumoniae is NOT true
Answer: Gram negative diplococcus

Q535: Which of the following bacteria is/are known as coliform bacilli?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q536: What is the bacterial name causative agent of the Pneumonic and Bubonic Plague?
Answer: Yersinia pestis

Q537: Which genera give the following reactions on TSI: acid butt, alkaline slant, H2S positive and is a significant pathogen?
Answer: Salmonella spp.

Q538: Intake of raw oysters has been associated with cholera.
Answer: 1

Q539: What is the purpose of filling the bottom tray of the API strip holder with water?
Answer: To provide a humidified chamber for the biochemical tests

Q540: Oral cholera vaccines provide life-long immunity.
Answer: 0

Q541: What is the purpose of filling the bottom tray of the API strip holder with water?
Answer: To provide a humidified chamber for the biochemical tests

Q542: Pseudomonas aeruginosa can be diagnosed from the pigment, known as
Answer: Pyocyanin

Q543: The most popular method for typing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa is
Answer: pyocin

Q544: Which of the following infection(s) can be caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa?
Answer: All of these

Q545: Which of the following medium are used to differentiate the colonies of Vibrio cholerae and V parahaemolyticus?
Answer: Thiosulphate-citrate-bile-sucrose

Q546: Which of the following biotypes of Vibrio cholerae are prevalent in India?
Answer: El Tor

Q547: Which of the following medium are used to differentiate the colonies of Vibrio cholerae and V parahaemolyticus?
Answer: Thiosulphate-citrate-bile-sucrose

Q548: Which of the following bacteria is responsible for “Malta fever” in humans which is caused primarily by contact with animals or animal products?
Answer: Brucella spp

Q549: You’re teaching a group of long-term care health givers about the signs and symptoms of tuberculosis. What signs and symptoms will you include in your education?*
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q550: Hot tubs are a high risk environment for Legionella growth.
Answer: 1

Q551: Interferon-gamma release assays (e.g., TB Gold) and Mantoux skin test cannot distinguish between latent infection and active (pulmonary or extrapulmonary) disease. True or False?
Answer: 1

Q552: All of the following are the symptoms caused by the pathogenic Brucella spp, EXCEPT
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q553: What is the minimum recommended number and timing of specimens for the diagnosis of pulmonary TB?
Answer: Two sputum specimens collected one hour apart

Q554: In a woman with infertility, suspected to have genito-urinary TB, which of the following specimens is important for diagnosis?
Answer: Endometrial tissue

Q555: Which of these statements is NOT true about chest radiology for TB diagnosis?
Answer: Chest x-rays are highly specific for TB

Q556: Which of the following can be used to differentiate between classical and El Tor biotypes of Vibrio cholerae?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q557: Which are the most common bacteria found in a specimen taken from burned patients?
Answer: Pseudomonas aeruginosa

Q558: Acinetobacter baumannii is one of the most......gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria.
Answer: Multidrug-resistant

Q559: The isolation of this gram-negative bacteria associated with cystic fibrosis can be done by culturing the specimen in selective media containing colistin. A sputum sample is taken and cultured, colonies appear only after 72 hours of the incubation period, these bacteria are oxidase-positive and further identification is done by using molecular methods, which bacteria is this?
Answer: Burkholderia cepacia

Q560: Ehrlichia chaffeensis is the cause of human monocytic ehrlichiosis
Answer: 1

Q561: Legionella bacteria can cause a serious type of pneumonia (lung infection) called Legionnaires’ disease. The bacteria can also cause a less serious illness called Pontiac fever.
Answer: 1

Q562: A 55 year old 40 pack year smoker consults with you for a 2 month history of cough and blood tinged sputum (no fever). He reports that his sister had TB 10 years ago. The CXR shows a cavitary mass in the RUL. What is the next step?
Answer: Send patient for a bronchoscopy

Q563: Which of the following is the correct drug regimen for a newly diagnosed patient with pulmonary tuberculosis?
Answer: 2 months of Rifampicin, Isoniazid, Pyrazinamide and Ethambutol followed by 4 months of Rifampicin and Isoniazid

Q564: Laboratory diagnosis of Leptospires using either Blood or CSF requires the urine to be prior to inoculation on Fletcher’s medium in the dark.
Answer: Diluted

Q565: Yaws resembles what in the early stages?
Answer: Syphilis

Q566: Long hair must be secured to the back of your head.
Answer: 1

Q567: The theory of biogenesis refers to the development of life forms from preexisting life forms.
Answer: 1

Q568: In the name , the word pyogenes is the
Answer: specific epithet (species).

Q569: Never remove chemicals, specimens, or other equipment from the laboratory.
Answer: 1

Q570: Microorganisms are involved in the following processes
Answer: infection.

Q571: Microorganisms are involved in the following processes:
Answer: decomposition of organic material

Q572: Microorganisms are involved in the following processes:
Answer: Co2

Q573: Which of the following tests should be used to monitor the success of treatment for a patient with pulmonary tuberculosis?
Answer: Sputum smear examination

Q574: Long hair, hanging jewelry, and loose clothing can be dangerous in a lab.
Answer: 1

Q575: Bacteria and Archaea are similar in which of the following?
Answer: considered prokaryotic cells;

Q576: The term used to describe a disease-causing microorganism is
Answer: pathogen

Q577: The formal system for classifying and naming organisms was developed by
Answer: Carolus Linnaeus

Q578: In the name Streptococcus pyogenes, the word pyogenes is the
Answer: specific epithet (species)

Q579: The name of Edward Jenner is associated with
Answer: vaccination

Q580: A microbiology student noticed that a culture broth tube was very turbid at the surface and turbid throughout the rest of the tube. She can conclude that the
Answer: organisms are facultative anaerobes

Q581: Chemotrops are organisms which
Answer: depend on oxidation-reduction reactions of inorganic or organic compounds for energy

Q582: Which of the following gram-negative bacteria is a plant pathogen?
Answer: Pseudomonas syringae

Q583: Selective media contain agents that inhibit the growth of certain bacteria while permitting the growth of other.
Answer: 1

Q584: Streaks plate was performed from a broth culture. After incubation confluent growth in all sectors was observed. Which of the following errors could NOT explain this result?
Answer: forgot to flame the loop between sectors

Q585: The bacterial cell wall may be a potential target for antibiotics.
Answer: 1

Q586: If 85 colonies are on the plate of 1/10000 dilution per ml, then what would be the number of cells per ml in the initial sample?
Answer: 850000

Q587: Which of the following is bactericidal?
Answer: Ionizing radiation

Q588: Milk is pasteurized in batch method by keeping it at
Answer: 63-66 o C for 30 minutes

Q589: Which of the following is true about mycoplasma?
Answer: Multiplication is by binary fission

Q590: A genus can best be defined as
Answer: a taxon composed of one or more species and below family.

Q591: A nosocomial infection is
Answer: acquired during the course of hospitalization.

Q592: Penicillin and streptomycin are commonly used in synergism because they display the same mode of action.
Answer: 0

Q593: Both trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole inhibit reactions along the same metabolic pathway.
Answer: 1

Q594: Which of the following diseases is NOT spread by droplet infection?
Answer: botulism

Q595: Due to its target, rifamycins can be effective over a broad spectrum.
Answer: 1

Q596: Which of the following definitions is INCORRECT?
Answer: epidemic: a disease that is endemic across the world

Q597: Food most often associated with an emetic type of food poisoning caused by Bacillus cereus, is
Answer: Rice

Q598: The major virulence factor of Corynebacterium diphtheriae is diphtheria toxin: an A-B exotoxin; inhibits protein synthesis.
Answer: 1

Q599: Clostridium botulinum food poisoning is due to
Answer: preformed toxin

Q600: The major significance of Robert Koch's work is that
Answer: microorganisms cause disease.

Q601: Which of the following statements about drug resistance is FALSE?
Answer: It is found only in gram-negative bacteria.

Q602: Which of the following does NOT constitute an advantage of using two antibiotics together?
Answer: Two are always twice as effective as one.

Q603: Which of the following is mismatched?
Answer: Yersinia² gram-positive facultatively anaerobic pleomorphic coccirods

Q604: Which of the following is mismatched?
Answer: Florey and Chain - identification of Penicillium as the producer of penicillin

Q605: Direct examination of trachomas has the advantage in that you can see if there are sufficient cells on the slide; if not, the specimen can be rejected as unsuitable
Answer: 1

Q606: Which one of the following causes a disease characterized by the catarrhal, paroxysmal, and convalescent stages?
Answer: Bordetella pertussis

Q607: Drug resistance occurs
Answer: When antibiotics are used indiscriminately.

Q608: Which of the following would be selective against the tubercle bacillus?
Answer: ethambutol inhibits mycolic acid synthesis

Q609: There are three types of anthrax namely cutaneous anthrax, intestinal anthrax, and respiratory anthrax.
Answer: 1

Q610: Cutaneous anthrax is the most severe form of anthrax which produces very painful skin lesions.
Answer: 0

Q611: Which of the following can be identified by milk ring test?
Answer: Brucellosis

Q612: Which of the following is true of undernutrition and TB?
Answer: All of the above

Q613: A patient receiving medical treatment for an active tuberculosis infection asks when she can starting going out in public again. You respond that she is no longer contagious when.*
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q614: patients are being monitored and tested for the disease. Select all tuberculosis.*
Answer: Long-term care resident

Q615: Currently, no members of Archaea have been linked to human disease,
Answer: 1

Q616: A 55-year old male patient is admired with an active tuberculosis infection. The nurse will place the patient in __ precautions and will always wear __ when providing patient care?*
Answer: airborne, respirator

Q617: Which statement is correct regarding mycobacterium tuberculosis?*
Answer: It is known as being an aerobic type of bacteria.

Q618: Your patient with a diagnosis of latent tuberculosis infection needs a bronchoscopy. During transport to endoscopy, the patient will need to wear?*
Answer: No special PPE is needed

Q619: Which statement is TRUE about temperature and bacterial growth?
Answer: Bacteria grow between a temperature range.

Q620: The term facultative anaerobe refers to an organism that
Answer: uses oxygen when present or grows without oxygen when absent

Q621: The plasmid-mediated properties is/are
Answer: fermentation of lactose

Q622: Which of the following bacteria does NOT belong with the others?
Answer: Staphylococcus

Q623: Which of the following is predominantly proteolytic?
Answer: C. sporogenes

Q624: Desiccation, filtration, high pressure, radiation are examples of dry heat.
Answer: 1

Q625: During the process of pasteurization, food is
Answer: reduced in the number of organisms that can cause spoilage

Q626: Which of the following are characteristics of Pseudomonas aeruginosa?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q627: Autoclaving uses ______ to sterilize.
Answer: steam and pressure.

Q628: Bacteria reproduce this way.
Answer: binary fission

Q629: During the Lag Phase, bacteria are
Answer: making proteins, ribosomes, obtaining nutrients.

Q630: During the stationary phase, bacteria are
Answer: Reproducing at the same rate as they are dying.

Q631: Ricketsias differ from chlamydias in that ricketsias
Answer: require an arthropod for transmission.

Q632: Disinfectants: chemical agents applied to inanimate objects. More harsh. Some may destroy endospores (steriliants or sporocides) (ex – ethylene oxide)
Answer: 1

Q633: The majority of bacterial species on Earth have not been successfully cultivated.
Answer: 1

Q634: All of the following organisms produce exotoxins EXCEPT
Answer: Salmonella typhi

Q635: Which of the following antibiotics is recommended for use against gram-negative bacteria?
Answer: polymyxin

Q636: The bacteria involved in the production of dental caries is/are
Answer: S.sanguis

Q637: Which of the following are characteristics of Pseudomonas aeruginosa?
Answer: production of pyocyanin.

Q638: The bacteria which can ferment mannitol is
Answer: S.aureus

Q639: Which of the following tests requires a blood sample for the diagnosis of active pulmonary TB?
Answer: None of the above

Q640: Which of the following is true about the structure of Gram positive cell wall
Answer: All of the above

Q641: What is the range that represents a psychrophile?
Answer: cold

Q642: Most bacteria that grow on/in humans are
Answer: mesophiles

Q643: The problem with psychrotrophs is that
Answer: they can grow at refrigerator temperatures and spoil food

Q644: Microorganisms obtain their carbon source in many different ways. Those that able to get the carbon source from the organic compound are called?
Answer: Chemotroph

Q645: Organisms do not increase significantly in number and produce large quantities of energy in the form of ATP. Which of the phase in the exponential growth curve explains these statements?
Answer: Lag phase

Q646: Which one of the following bacteria does NOT belong to Firmicutes?
Answer: Escherichia

Q647: Which of the following properties are the characteristics of tetanospasmin?
Answer: It is a heat-labile protein

Q648: Which of the following statements about drug resistance is TRUE?
Answer: It may be transferred from one bacterium to another during conjugation

Q649: Which of the following statements about drug resistance is TRUE?
Answer: It may be due to enzymes that degrade some antibiotics

Q650: Which of the following statements about drug resistance is TRUE?
Answer: It may be due to increased uptake of a drug.

Q651: Anthrax is caused by spore-forming bacteria known as Bacillus anthracis.
Answer: 1

Q652: Clostridium tetani exotoxin acts on synaptosomes, thereby causing hyperreflexia of skeletal muscles.
Answer: 1

Q653: Which of the following statements about drug resistance is TRUE?
Answer: It may be carried on a plasmid

Q654: Nagler's reaction is useful for the identification of
Answer: C perfringens

Q655: Vaccines are not available for streptococcal diseases other than streptococcal pneumonia because of the large number of serotypes
Answer: 1

Q656: The most common causative agent of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Answer: 1

Q657: A drug that inhibits mitosis, such as griseofulvin, would be more effective against
Answer: fungi

Q658: Which of the following Staphylococcal haemolysins does not cause lysis of human RBCs?
Answer: α haemolysin

Q659: Transmission of pneumonic plague from man to man is through
Answer: droplet infection

Q660: Which of the following pathogen can be transferred to human and cause infections from the bite of dogs and cats?
Answer: Pasteurella multocida

Q661: One of the characteristic symptoms of brucellosis is rise of a temperature up to 40°C each evening
Answer: 1

Q662: Massive human-to-human transmission of plague is usually result of unsanitary conditions
Answer: 0

Q663: P. aeruginosa is motile by several peri-trichous flagellae?
Answer: 0

Q664: Pseudomonas aeruginosa can infect plants as well as humans?
Answer: 1

Q665: Which of the following is the drug of choice for infections caused by Pasteurella multocida?
Answer: Doxycycline

Q666: Which of the following diagnostics tests can be used to diagnose drug resistant tuberculosis?
Answer: Liquid culture

Q667: P. multocida is the most common cause of wound infections after dog or cat bites.
Answer: 1

Q668: The Elementary body outer membrane is similar to that of Gram negative organism, most prominent component is the ______.
Answer: Major outer membrane protein

Q669: Borreliae are highly flexible and much more coiled than the Leptospires.
Answer: 0

Q670: Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease usually associated with occupation exposure to animals or working with rats
Answer: 1

Q671: Pasteurella multocida is a Gram-negative, nonmotile, penicillin-sensitive coccobacillus of the family Pasteurellaceae.
Answer: 1

Q672: What are the factor that shifting the phase to the decline phase?
Answer: Condition in the medium become less and cell lose their ability to divide

Q673: The purpose of streaking a plate is to obtain
Answer: Pure cultures

Q674: Spirochaetes exhibit
Answer: all of the above

Q675: Chlamydia is called the silent disease because it often goes undetected. What portion of infected men and women have symptoms of chlamydia?
Answer: 1 in 10 men, and up to 3 in 10 women

Q676: Soaps are classified as disinfectants.
Answer: 0

Q677: A disinfectant is normally used on the skin.
Answer: 0

Q678: 3 examples of moist heat.,
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q679: Archea are best known as extreme halophils but not as extreme thermophiles
Answer: 0

Q680: The highest level in the taxonomic hierarchy is "Kingdom."
Answer: 0

Q681: a taxon composed of one or more species and below family
Answer: 1

Q682: Thermophile is a microorganism with a growth optimum around 20 to 45°C, a minimum of 15 to 20°C, and a maximum about 45°C or lower.
Answer: 0

Q683: In A-B exotoxins, the A component binds to the host cell receptor so that the B component can enter the cell.
Answer: 0

Q684: Most symptoms of endotoxins can be treated with administration of anti-endotoxin antibodies.
Answer: 0

Q685: Many pathogens use the same portal for entry and exit from the body.
Answer: 1

Q686: All of the following are used by bacteria to attach to host cells EXCEPT
Answer: Flagella

Q687: Most of the available antimicrobial agents are effective against bacteria
Answer: 1

Q688: Generation time is the time required for a microbial population to double in number
Answer: 1

Q689: Generation time is
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q690: Which of the following antibiotics are used to treat fungal infections?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q691: Which of the following antimicrobial agents has the fewest side effects?
Answer: penicillin

Q692: The agent(s) which can cause plague is/are
Answer: yersinia pestis

Q693: Which of the following antimicrobial agents is recommended for use against fungal infections?
Answer: Amphotericin B

Q694: Forage poisoning is due to botulinim toxin C.
Answer: 1

Q695: Both Tetanus and Botulism exotoxins can be formed into toxoids,
Answer: 1

Q696: Initial treatment for tetanus in an unimmunized person with a puncture wound is
Answer: tetanus immune globulin

Q697: The CSF from a 2-week-old infant with meningitis shows rods with tumbling motility. These bacteria are found to be Gram-positive and do not form spores. What is the most likely agent?
Answer: Listeria monocytogenes

Q698: β-hemolysis, catalase negative, Bacitracin susceptible → Streptococcus viridians
Answer: 0

Q699: Catalase positive, coagulase negative, novobiocin susceptible, bacitracin resistant, no hemolysis → Streptococcus agalactiae
Answer: 0

Q700: Catalase positive, coagulase negative, novobiocin resistant → Staphylococcus saphrophyticus
Answer: 1

Q701: α- hemolysis, catalase negative, optochin resistant → Streptococcus pneumoniae
Answer: 0

Q702: In what way are semisynthetic penicillins and natural penicillins alike?
Answer: Both contain β-lactam rings

Q703: All of the following contribute to a pathogen’s invasiveness EXCEPT
Answer: Ribosomes

Q704: Antimicrobial peptides work by
Answer: disrupting the plasma membrane

Q705: if a microbial drug prevents microbes from growing, its action is termed bactericidal
Answer: 0

Q706: Gram-negative, rod-shaped, facultatively anaerobic, positive for catalase; oxidase-negative non-motile bacteria S.typhils cause agent of shigelloses
Answer: 0

Q707: TSI tube does not show fermentation of lactose.
Answer: 0

Q708: Which of the following(s) bacteria belong to the family Entero-bacteriaceae?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q709: Which of the following property(ies), shown by the organisms belong(s) to the family Enterobacteriaceae?
Answer: They ferment glucose

Q710: Growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa always requires the presence of oxygen?
Answer: 0

Q711: The most prominent symptom of cholera is profuse, watery diarrhea, which can lead to dehydration and even death.
Answer: 1

Q712: Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic, pathogenic, encapsulated coccobacillus of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough.
Answer: 1

Q713: B. pertussis infects its host by colonizing lung epithelial cells.
Answer: 1

Q714: The preventive measure for Bordetella pertussis infection is vaccination method, the pertussis vaccine is usually administered in combination with toxoids of Diphtheria and tetanus (DTaP). The pertussis vaccine is primarily important for children, preteens, pregnant women and adults who have never received it, what doses of this vaccine is recommended for children under six years?
Answer: Five doses

Q715: Which of the following do not prove to be helpful for the treatment of whooping cough?
Answer: Antitussives

Q716: Tuberculin skin test – the Mantoux test uses PPD (purified protein derivative) which is injected just under the skin
Answer: 1

Q717: B. pertussis causes the disease plague, which takes three main forms: pneumonic, septicemic, and bubonic.
Answer: 0

Q718: Whooping cough is treated by macrolides, for example erythromycin.
Answer: 1

Q719: All standard characteristics for bacteria can be used to identify mycobacteria except gram stain.
Answer: 1

Q720: Which sexually transmitted disease is caused by a spirochete?
Answer: syphilis

Q721: All cells possess a cell wall
Answer: 0

Q722: The process of pasteurization to reduce food spoilage utilizes high heat to kill all bacteria present.
Answer: false

Q723: Fluorescence Microscopy uses dyes to bind to specimen for emitting visible light after absorbing shorter UV rays.
Answer: 1

Q724: Immersion Oil is used to clean the lenses of a microscope.
Answer: false

Q725: When first focusing in low power, bring the lens as close to the slide as possible.
Answer: false

Q726: The purpose of an incubator is to recreate the proper growth conditions of a bacterial sample in order to promote bacterial growth.
Answer: 1

Q727: Media can be either selective or differential, but they cannot be both.
Answer: False

Q728: The genus Legionella is a pathogenic group of Gram-negative bacteria that includes the species L. pneumophila, causing legionellosis
Answer: 1

Q729: For a two year old child with suspected TB, the best clinical specimen for pulmonary TB diagnosis is:
Answer: Gastric lavage

Q730: The vector for murine thyphus is the rat flea.
Answer: 1

Q731: Coxiella burnettii is the causative agent of Q fever.
Answer: 1

Q732: The process of pasteurization is named after the German scientist Robert Koch.
Answer: 0

Q733: According to Koch’s postulates the first step for directly linking a microbe to a specific disease is to inject a sample of blood or other body fluid from a diseased animal into a healthy animal.
Answer: 0

Q734: The use of phenol (carbolic acid) as a wound disinfectant was first practiced by Lister.
Answer: 1

Q735: When first focusing your microscope you should use the High power objective.
Answer: 0

Q736: Most common stains used in gram staining is crystal violet and methyl blue.
Answer: 0

Q737: Ocular lens is used to regulate the amount of light on the specimen.
Answer: 0

Q738: Which of the following is(are) (a) magnifying lens(es)?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q739: Alkalophile is a microorganism that requires high levels of sodium chloride for growth.
Answer: 0

Q740: Psychrotrophs is a microorganism with a growth optimum around 20 to 45°C, a minimum of 15 to 20°C, and a maximum about 45°C or lower
Answer: 0

Q741: s or mass during batch culture
Answer: 1

Q742: Antiviral drugs do not affect eukaryotic cells.
Answer: 1

Q743: Which of the following does NOT affect eukaryotic cells?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q744: Which of the following condition is non-supurative sequelae of infections?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q745: The temperature-pressure combination for an autoclave is 121 degrees Celsius and 2atm pressure.
Answer: 1

Q746: Storage in a freezer at ultra low temperatures (-80°C)
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q747: Preservation of foods by using salts and sugars works by
Answer: creating a hypertonic environment

Q748: Which of the following items could be sterilized by dry heat sterilization?
Answer: Glass pipettes

Q749: What term is defined as a chemical agent that is applied directly to body surfaces, wounds) and surgical incisions to destroy or inhibit vegetative pathogens?
Answer: Antiseptic

Q750: What is the goal of sterilization?
Answer: The destruction of bacterial endospores

Q751: Bacterial cell-to-cell contact is required for transduction to occur.
Answer: 0

Q752: The arrangement of organisms into taxa shows degrees of relatedness between organisms.
Answer: 0

Q753: A disease acquired by many people in a given area in a relatively short period of time is called pandemic.
Answer: 0

Q754: Emergence of infectious diseases can be attributed to which of the following
Answer: antibiotic resistance

Q755: Protozoan and helminthic diseases are difficult to treat because their cells are structurally and functionally similar to human cells.
Answer: 1

Q756: Clostridium spp. cause disease by producing endotoxins
Answer: false

Q757: Clostridium difficile causes antibiotic-accociated diarrhea, antibiotic-associated pseudomembrane colitis
Answer: 1

Q758: A disease in which the causative agent remains inactive for a time before producing symptoms is referred to as latent
Answer: 1

Q759: The stage of disease that is characterized by early and mild symptoms is called the period of illness.
Answer: 0

Q760: Clostridium spp. Are Gram (+) rods.
Answer: 1

Q761: Hepatic disease can be a side effect of tetanus anti-toxin given to horses.
Answer: 1

Q762: You are assessing your newly admitted patients who are all presenting with atypical signs and symptoms of a possible lung infection. The physician suspects tuberculosis. So, therefore, the patients are being monitored and tested for the disease. Select all the risk factors below that increases a patient’s risk for developing tuberculosis:*
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q763: Which of the following statements about staphylococcal enterotoxin is FALSE?
Answer: It is produced by Staphylococcus aureus growing in the host's intestines.

Q764: The birth of modern chemotherapy is credited to the efforts of Paul Ehrlich.
Answer: 1

Q765: Most of the available antimicrobial agents are effective against viruses,
Answer: 0

Q766: Which of the following is true to prevent botulism from smoked fish?
Answer: Fish should be immediately frozen after packaging and kept frozen

Q767: In Table 1, the minimal bactericidal concentration of antibiotic X is
Answer: 15 µg/ml

Q768: , antibiotic-associated pseudomembrane colitis
Answer: 1

Q769: The symptoms of tetanus are due to
Answer: toxin tetanospassmin

Q770: The bacteria which is novobiocinsensitive is
Answer: S. Aureus

Q771: The bacteria which is novobiocinsensitive is
Answer: S. epidermidis

Q772: Bacttracin test is used for presumptive identification of group A streptococci
Answer: 1

Q773: The phylum Actinobacteria is defined as a low G+C gram-positive bacteria.
Answer: 0

Q774: The science that deals with when diseases occur and how they are transmitted is called epidemiology.
Answer: 1

Q775: Houseflies, as biological vectors, can transmit important diseases.
Answer: 1

Q776: h of harmful microorganisms. This is called microbial antagonism
Answer: True
Q777: The ability of some microbes, such as Trypanosoma or Giardia to alter their surface molecules and evade destruction by the host’s antibodies is called
Answer: Antigenic variation

Q778: Salmonellosis is caused by the endotoxin of Salmonella spp
Answer: 1