Q1: The system controlling tryptophane expression is a repressible system  
Answer: 1  

Q2: The inducer for the lac operon is  
Answer: allocatose  

Q3: A group of linked genes whose expression is coordinately regulated is  
Answer: operon  

Q4: Tryptophan, the end-product of the enzymes encoded by the trp operon, therefore acts as a  
Answer: co-repressor  

Q5: In prokaryotes the regulation of gene expression mostly takes place at the level of  
Answer: transcription  

Q6: Enhancers have the ability to greatly increase the expression of genes in their vicinity.  
Answer: 1  

Q7: Mark the correct sentence regarding alternative splicing  
Answer: all correct  

Q8: Nucleosomal chromatin can be remodeled in the following ways exapt of  
Answer: by decapping of m-RNA  

Q9: Which of the following are not matched correctly?  
Answer: c. all are matched correctly  

Q10: Gene regulation in eukaryotes may be influenced by  
Answer: all of them  

Q11: All of the following are true about DNA methylation EXCEPT  
Answer: when it occurs, transcription is more likely to occur  

Q12: Working sequence of cyclins is: D-E-A-B  
Answer: 1  

Q13: Retinoblastoma (rb) maintains G1 phase activity until  
Answer: C. S-Cdk dephosphorylates it, thus deactivating E2F protein  

Q14: At which cell cycle checkpoint is the cell cycle halted if the cell's DNA is damaged?  
Answer: a) G1 – S  

Q15: Upstream regions which are essential for correct transcription are called  
Answer: promoter  

Q16: The humans genome express approximately ---TFs(transcription factors)  
Answer: 3000  

Q17: One of the sign for Kuru was uncontrolle laughing, leading to the nickname “laughing disease.”  
Answer: 1  

Q18: Misfolding is influenced by  
Answer: All of them  

Q19: neurofibrillary tangles creates because of  
Answer: B. Hyperphosphorylated forms of tau proteinC.  

Q20: which of the listed proteins play a role in the pathogenesis of AD (Alzheimer Disease)  
Answer: D. All of them  

Q21: What is the formal name for all prion diseases in humans?  
Answer: A. Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies  

Q22: Protein A will fold into its native state only when protein B is also present in the solution. However protein B can fold itself into native confirmation without the presence of protein A. Which of the following is true?  
Answer: a. b. Protein B serves as molecular chaperon for protein Ac.  

Q23: Mendel's Law of Dominance states that alleles are separated during meiosis?  
Answer: 0  

Q24: An individual with blood type A marries an individual with blood type B. What blood types could their offspring exhibit?  
Answer: E) all of these are possible  

Q25: A men is homozygous recessive for seven(7) of these ten genes, and he is heterozygous for the other three(3). How many genotypically different types of sperm could he produce ?  
Answer: 8  

Q26: Albinism in humans is inherited as a simple recessive trait. For the following situation determine the genotypes of the parents. Two normal parents have five children, four normal and one albino.  
Answer: both parents are heterozygous regarding the anbino alleles  

Q27: based of Medelian inheritance If crossed two heterozygous plants, how many of the offspring will also be heterozygous?  
Answer: A. B. HalfC. &  

Q28: In each case where Mendel crossed true breeding plants as parents, the offspring displayed only one of the two traits seen in the parents. This observation supports which principle of genetics?  
Answer: dominance and recessiveness  

Q29: Diseases of multifactorial inheritance result from a complex interaction of the effects of multiple different genes with environmental factors.  
Answer: 1  

Q30: Suppose a white-furred rabbit breeds with a black-furred rabbit and all of their offspring have a phenotype of gray fur. What does the gene for fur color in rabbits appear to be an example of?  
Answer: Incomplete dominance  

Q31: A region of DNA is imprinted (genomic imprinting) through  
Answer: a. DNA methylation  

Q32: If two genes experience independent assortment, which assumption is most likely true?  
Answer: the genes are located on the different chromosomes or are far apart of the same chromosome  

Q33: Which type of inheritance results in continuous variation often a bell-shaped curve.  
Answer: A) polygenic  

Q34: Pseudogenes are DNA sequences, that closely resemble the known genes but are nonfunctional  
Answer: 1  

Q35: During the meiosis X and Y chromosome exchange  
Answer: A. PAR region  

Q36: The Bombay Phenotype is the example of  
Answer: C) recessive epistasis.  

Q37: The genes that Mendel worked with were  
Answer: d) 100% penetrant with 100% expressivity  

Q38: obesity, excessive and indiscriminate eating habits, small hands and feet, short stature, hypogonadism, mental retardation characteristic symptoms of  
Answer: Prader-Willi syndrome  

Q39: The X is a large submetacentric chromosome  
Answer: 1  

Q40: X inactivation occurs randomly at about 16th day post fertilization, when the female embryo consists of about 200-400 cells  
Answer: 1  

Q41: Mark the correct statment  
Answer: all correct  

Q42: Which of the following is true  
Answer: All correct  

Q43: Mark correct statement regarding X inactivation  
Answer: All correct  

Q44: Hayflick limit defines the number of possible cell divisions and depends on the length of chromosomal telomeres, which decreases in standard cells with every cell division  
Answer: 1  

Q45: Short stature, intellectual disability, “elfin like” facial features, a stellate pattern to the iris, characteristic for  
Answer: A. William syndrome  

Q46: in case of pseudoachondroplasia(a type of dwarfism) phenotype, genotype is  
Answer: heterozygous  

Q47: Histone modifications includes:  
Answer: D.all ofthem  

Q48: Patients with Kleinfelter Syndrome are typically female  
Answer: 0  

Q49: the risk of having a baby with Down syndrome is greater among mothers age 35 and older.  
Answer: 1  

Q50: Name of the Trisomy 18 is:  
Answer: b) Edwards syndrome  

Q51: Match the incorrect statement  
Answer: c) In 90% of Trisomy 21 cases, the additional chromosome comes from the father's sperm rather than the mother's eggs.  

Q52: Autosomal trisomies is associated with following characteristic except of  
Answer: long life expectancy  

Q53: stocky build, arms that turn out slightly at the elbow, a short webbed neck, and a low hairline at the back of the neck---Common physical symptoms of  
Answer: Turner Syndrome  

Q54: in male sex chromosome aneuploidy can be due to abnormal numbers of  
Answer: c. both  

Q55: Phenylketonuria PKU is an autosomal dominant disorder  
Answer: 0  

Q56: Presence of a 'cherry-red' spot in the retina characteristic symptom of Tay-Sachs disease  
Answer: 1  

Q57: Which of the following is characteristic to autosomal recessive disease?  
Answer: d) It affects both sexes equally.  

Q58: mark incorrect option. Marfan syndrome features may include  
Answer: bowed legs or knock knees  

Q59: PKU is caused by a mutation in a  
Answer: PAH gene  

Q60: A baby girl presents with bilateral inguinal masses that are thought to be hernias but are found to be testes in the inguinal canals. What is her disorder?  
Answer: androgen insensitivity syndrome  

Q61: Which disease in treated by a low-phenylalanine diet  
Answer: B. Phenylketonuria  

Q62: Hemophilia is a classic X-linked recessive disorder in which the blood fails to clot normally.  
Answer: 1  

Q63: Sex-linked recessive traits can be seen only in men, because they result from genes located on theX chromosome.  
Answer: 1  

Q64: Haemophilic man marries a normal(homozygous) woman. Their off springs will be  
Answer: D. all normal.  

Q65: The most noticeable abnormalities- bowed legs or knock knees characteristic for  
Answer: B. hypophosphatemic rickets  

Q66: What gender is most affected by this Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy  
Answer: B. Boys  

Q67: What physical features would you see in a person with fragile X syndrome  
Answer: B. Enlarged ears, long face, and prominent chin  

Q68: Match incorrect statement regarding Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA)  
Answer: d) All correct  

Q69: the β-globin mutations have no prenatal consequences, because γ-globin is the major β-like globin before birth  
Answer: 1  

Q70: Red blood cells only become sickled-shaped when they lose their oxygen  
Answer: 1  

Q71: The major abnormal form of hemoglobin that accumulates in a fetus with the severe form of a-thalassemia (hydrops fetalis) is composed of:  
Answer: A tetramer of 4 γ -subunits ( γ4)  

Q72: α-Thalassemia most commonly results from which of the following genetic lesions?  
Answer: 1. C. Gene deletion  

Q73: In case of are missing one over the four alpha chain genes, clinical phenotype call  
Answer: 1. A. Silent Carrier  

Q74: Which type of alpha thalassemia is not survivable?  
Answer: 1. A. Hydrops FetalisB.  

Q75: HbF structure is  
Answer: 1. B. α2γ2C.  

Q76: One mitochondria contains dozens of copies of its mitochondrial genome  
Answer: 1  

Q77: mutation rate in nuclear genome much more high then in Mitochondrial genome  
Answer: 0  

Q78: Which of the listed below show a distinctive pattern of mitochondria genome inheritance  
Answer: D. All of the listed  

Q79: Which of the listed correct about replicative segregation.  
Answer: 6. C. All correct  

Q80: minisatellite polymorphism is largely used for DNA fingerprinting  
Answer: 1  

Q81: How do Prader-Willi syndrome and Angelman syndrome differ?  
Answer: Prader-Willi syndrome is associated with problems in the paternal chromosome, while Angelman syndrome is associated with problems in the maternal chromosome.  

Q82: which of them is not X-linked condition:  
Answer: a) Cystic fibrosis  

Q83: Regarding to the X-linked genes males are?  
Answer: Hemizygotes  

Q84: Which of the following are the properties of enzyme telomerase?  
Answer: d) All of the above  

Q85: Acetyl groups can be added to both arginine and lysine residues in histones H3 and this change has been correlated with gene activity  
Answer: 1  

Q86: RNA-induced gene silencing is the example of  
Answer: post-transcriptional regulation  

Q87: Which of the following are not matched correctly?  
Answer: e. all are matched correctly  

Q88: p53 proteins, have three major functions: growth arrest, DNA repair and apoptosis  
Answer: 1  

Q89: The abnormal conformational transition from alpha helix to beta sheet exposes hydrophobic amino acid residues and promotes protein aggregation.  
Answer: 1  

Q90: Misfolding is influenced by  
Answer: All of them  

Q91: A chart used to determine the offspring of a genetic cross is called a Punnet square.  
Answer: 1  

Q92: If Mr. and Mrs. Fecundity, both having blood type B, have 12 children, 3/4 of whom are type B and 1/4 of whom are O, what are the genotypes of the parents?  
Answer: BO/BO  

Q93: A family of six includes four children, each of whom has a different blood type: A, B, AB and O. What are the genotypes of parents for this trait?  
Answer: AO/BO  

Q94: A man with blood type B, with one parent of blood type O, marries a woman with blood type AB. What will be the theoretical percentage of their children with blood type B?  
Answer: 50%  

Q95: Phenotypic ratios of 3:1 in the offsprings explain the principle of ____.  
Answer: b) complite Dominance  

Q96: Rh+ was found to be dominant over the absence of the blood factor (Rh). Under normal Mendelian inheritance, which of the following statements is FALSE?  
Answer: Two Rh- parents could have an Rh+ child.  

Q97: Characteristics controlled by more than one gene, each of which may have two or more alleles, is known as codominance  
Answer: 0  

Q98: Suppose a white-furred rabbit breeds with a black-furred rabbit and all of their offspring have a phenotype of gray fur. What does the gene for fur color in rabbits appear to be an example of?  
Answer: incomplete dominance  

Q99: D and G group of chromosomes bear an "s" (satellite) encodings r RNA gene  
Answer: 1  

Q100: Which of the following type of the chromosome is not found in the human being  
Answer: D. Telocentric  

Q101: How is the banding pattern of a chromosome useful?  
Answer: D. All above listed  

Q102: Chromosomes are classified into  
Answer: seven groups  

Q103: Mark the correct statment  
Answer: all correct  

Q104: Which of the following is true  
Answer: All correct  

Q105: Single nucleotide polymorphism are common and are observed on average once every 1000 base pair in genome  
Answer: 1  

Q106: which of the listed pregnant women has high risk having a Down syndrome fetus.  
Answer: b. a 41-year-old mother of a previous trisomy 21 child  

Q107: Which syndrome is a syndrome caused by the deletion of a small piece of chromosome 22?  
Answer: A. DiGeorge Syndrome  

Q108: Which of the following is the cause of complete monosomy?  
Answer: D. Nondisjunction  

Q109: Which of the following is not a symptom of Turner’s syndrome?  
Answer: C. Swollen ears  

Q110: Number of Barr bodies in XXXX female is  
Answer: C. 3  

Q111: Rett syndrome X-Linked Dominant Disorders with equal Male and female Lethality  
Answer: 0  

Q112: Myotonic dystrophy -DM1 is caused by the expansion of the tri nucleotide repeat CTG in the 3.-untranslated region - 3’ UTR- of the DMPK gene.  
Answer: 1  

Q113: Which symptom in an infant or young child might mean CF?  
Answer: E. All of the above  

Q114: Albinism is a congenital disorder resulting from the lack of which enzyme?  
Answer: tyrosinase  

Q115: Which of the following is the example triplet repeat disorders  
Answer: Huntington disease  

Q116: Cri-du-chat syndrome in humans is caused by the  
Answer: loss of half of the short arm of chromosome 5  

Q117: Rett syndrome and some variant forms of the condition are caused by mutations in the  
Answer: B. MECP2 gene.  

Q118: Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis is the X linked disorder  
Answer: 1  

Q119: A colour blind girl is rare because she will be born only when  
Answer: B. her father and maternal grandfather were colour blind  

Q120: A genetically diseased father marries with a normal female and gives birth to 3 carrier girls and 5 normal sons. It may be which type of genetic disease?  
Answer: B. sex-linked recessive  

Q121: Sickle cell anemia is:  
Answer: C. an autosomal recessive disease.  

Q122: All of the following are examples of mutations which have been observed on a b-thalassemia allele except:  
Answer: E. A missense mutation in codon 6 of the b-globin gene, substituting valine for glutamic acid.  

Q123: The mitochondrial genome is linear and enveloped  
Answer: 0  

Q124: The mitochondrial genome contains 13 proteins coding genes  
Answer: 1  

Q125: Mark the incorrect statement regarding mitochondria genome  
Answer: B. Mitochondria DNA is single stranded.  

Q126: Nerve cells differ from muscle cells mainly because they  
Answer: b) express different genes  

Q127: Which of the following genes is not a structural gene of the lac operon  
Answer: lac I  

Q128: A transcription factor is a protein that affects the ability of RNA polymerase to transcribe a gene  
Answer: 1  

Q129: All of the following are true for miRNA except  
Answer: a. they trigger degradation of proteins  

Q130: In normal cells, the p53 protein level is low  
Answer: 1  

Q131: Cdc6 complex (cdc6 cdt1) binds to the origin recognition complex (ORC) during which phase  
Answer: C. S  

Q132: APC/C can trigger sister chromatid separation at anaphase  
Answer: C. Active APC/C can ubquinate securin, activating separate.  

Q133: Plaques ( senile pluques) are beta-amyloid protein aggregates, that form clusters of misfolded protein outside the cell bodies  
Answer: 1  

Q134: Which of the following is a function of chaperone protein?  
Answer: b. It rescues proteins not to fold improperly and allows them to fold properly  

Q135: the center of AD pathogenesis overproduction  
Answer: B. Aβ42 peptide  

Q136: which of the listed are components of ‘quality control’ (QC) system  
Answer: C. A and B  

Q137: The different forms of a gene are known as alleles  
Answer: 1  

Q138: for some alleles allelic expression is parent-of-origin specific. This phenomenon is known as genomic imprinting.  
Answer: 1  

Q139: A gene interaction in which a pair of recessive genes at one locus prevents expression of a dominant allele at another locus is called  
Answer: C) recessive epistasis.  

Q140: Intragenic interactions - are interactions that occur  
Answer: between two alleles of the same gene  

Q141: penetrance and expressivity are influenced by  
Answer: bottle of them  

Q142: MN blood group in humans illustrates Co-dominance pattern of inheritance.  
Answer: 1  

Q143: Which of the following types of information are needed to construct a karyogram?  
Answer: a. Size of the chromosomes  

Q144: XX male and XY female are rear genetic disorder in human. They are due to  
Answer: D. crossingover outside of the PAR region between X and Y chromosome  

Q145: smallest chromosome in the human karyotype is  
Answer: 21 chromosome  

Q146: Roughly what percentage of our genome is made up of protein coding sequence?  
Answer: a) 2%  

Q147: the telomere regions gradually shorten with cell division and this correlates with the induction of cellular senescence  
Answer: 1  

Q148: X chromosome inactivation normally take place in  
Answer: female.  

Q149: X chromosomes belong to the following group of chromosomes  
Answer: c) C group  

Q150: Centromeres – primary constriction site in the chromosomes.  
Answer: 1  

Q151: Chromosomes are classified as ______ when the centromere is very close to the center  
Answer: metacentric  

Q152: Telomeres are usually rich in which nucleotide?  
Answer: Guanine  

Q153: Turner syndrome is caused by a missing or incomplete X chromosome.  
Answer: 1  

Q154: causes of Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH) is a deficiency of 21-hydroxylase which is produced in  
Answer: c) Chromosome 6  

Q155: Which of the following diseases is NOT inherited as an autosomal recessive?  
Answer: a) Marfan syndrome  

Q156: DNA analysis in Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy demonstrates a deletion or duplication in the dystrophin gene  
Answer: 1  

Q157: Disorder results from mutations in the fibrillin-1 (FBN1) gene on chromosome 15 is  
Answer: b) Marfan syndrome  

Q158: in sickle cell syndrome HBS illustrated as  
Answer: 1. D. α2β2 6Glu—Val  

Q159: Which of the listed is false option  
Answer: D. The mitochondrial genomes are inherited equally from both parents.  

Q160: allolactose is an co-repressor for lac operon  
Answer: 0  

Q161: Appropriate cyclin are synthesized at the start of each phase of the cell cycle and destroyed before the cell proceeds to the next phase:  
Answer: 1  

Q162: Which of the following describe(s) cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk)?  
Answer: E) Both B and C are true.  

Q163: In order to enter the cell cycle a cell must be stimulated from outside. What type of molecule provides this stimulation  
Answer: C. mitogens and growth factorsD.  

Q164: Which of the following true bout Cdks  
Answer: a) They activate protein by phosphorylating themb)  

Q165: The cell is not allowed to pass the cell cycle restriction point if DNA damage is detected. Which of the following proteins are involved in detection of DNA damage and inhibition of the cycle at the restriction point?  
Answer: a) b) P53  

Q166: Which of the following is a possible role of ubiquitin?  
Answer: B. Directs degradation  

Q167: Pleiotrophy is- when one gene influences multiple phenotypic traits  
Answer: 1  

Q168: Which of the following is an example of non-Mendelian inheritance?  
Answer: c) Eye color  

Q169: The inheritance of an ABO blood group illustrates:  
Answer: b) Multiple allelism  

Q170: Phenotypic ratios of 1:2:1 in the offsprings explain the principle of ______.  
Answer: Incomplete dominance  

Q171: A man and his wife both have normal color vision, but a daughter has red-green color blindness, a sex-linked recessive trait. The man sues his wife for divorce on grounds of infidelity. Can genetics provide evidence supporting his case? (does infidelity happen?)  
Answer: yes  

Q172: females with a 46,XY karyotype have lost  
Answer: the testis-determining region of the Y chromosome.  

Q173: Which of the following best describes X chromosome inactivation in females?  
Answer: d) It produces dosage compensation for X-linked genes  

Q174: The type of Polymorphism, that consists of stretches of DNA composed of units of two, three or four nucleotides repeated between one and few dozen time at a particular site is:  
Answer: Microsatellite polymorphism,  

Q175: For DNA fingerprinting largely used  
Answer: minisatellite polymorphism  

Q176: The human genome contains approximately  
Answer: 20,000 protein coding genes  

Q177: which of the following correct regarding Telomeres  
Answer: all correct  

Q178: The TYR gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called tyrosinase. Mutation in this gene reason for:  
Answer: Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA)  

Q179: If the hemophiliac male mates with a normal female, all the sons will effected  
Answer: 0  

Q180: the α chain of the hemoglobin has --- amino acids residues:  
Answer: 1. B. 141C.  

Q181: The genes for the β and β-like chains are clustered tandemly on  
Answer: chromosome 11  

Q182: Protein complexes that break down proteins are called proteasomes  
Answer: 1  

Q183: SWI/SNF complex is a proteins, that activate transcription  
Answer: 1  

Q184: Proteins that are involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, and that show fluctuations in concentration during the cell cycle, are called  
Answer: E) cyclins.  

Q185: genotype refer to the genetic make-up of an organism  
Answer: 1  

Q186: Here is normal human karyotype A = 6, B = 4, C = 16, D = 6, E = 6, F = 4, G = 4 To whom it belongs:  
Answer: Female  

Q187: Homozygotous condition means, identical alleles of the same gene.  
Answer: 1  

Q188: mark incorrect option. Marfan syndrome features may include  
Answer: bowed legs or knock knees  

Q189: The reason why haemophilia is more commonly observed in human males than in females is due to  
Answer: the diseases is due to X-linked recessive mutation  

Q190: tetramer is called Hb H in case  
Answer: 1. A. β4  

Q191: The gene that code for the beta subunit of the hemoglobin protein allocated :  
Answer: b) on chromosome 11  

Q192: Why are genetic disorders such as haemophilia and Duchenne muscular dystrophy more prevalent in males than females?  
Answer: D. Because they are X-linked recessive disorders  

Q193: If the poly-A tail is shortened to less than about 30 nucleotides, the mRNA becomes unstable  
Answer: 1  

