Q1: The genes for the α and α-like chains are clustered tandemly on chromosome 11.
Answer: 0

Q2: Nerve cells differ from muscle cells mainly because they
Answer: express different genes

Q3: Which of the following genes is not a structural gene of the lac operon
Answer: lac I

Q4: The inducer for the lac operon is
Answer: alloactose

Q5: A group of linked genes whose expression is coordinately regulated is
Answer: operon

Q6: A transcription factor is a protein that affects the ability of RNA polymerase to transcribe a gene
Answer: 1

Q7: All of the following are true about DNA methylation EXCEPT
Answer: when it occurs, transcription is more likely to occur

Q8: Which of the following is an example of post-transcriptional control of gene expression?
Answer: alternative splicing

Q9: All of the following are true for miRNA except
Answer: they trigger degradation of proteins

Q10: RNA-induced gene silencing is the example of
Answer: post-transcriptional regulation

Q11: Mark the correct sentence regarding alternative splicing
Answer: all correct

Q12: Neurofibrillary tangles are found within AD neurons.
Answer: 1

Q13: The retinoblastoma protein controls
Answer: Transition from G1 to S phase

Q14: Cdc6 complex (cdc6 cdt1) binds to the origin recognition complex (ORC) during which phase
Answer: S

Q15: APC/C can trigger sister chromatid separation at anaphase
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q16: Retinoblastoma (rb) maintains G1 phase activity until
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q17: Plaques (senile plaques) are beta-amyloid protein aggregates, that form clusters of misfolded protein outside the cell bodies
Answer: 1

Q18: Neurofibrillary tangles creates because of
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q19: Which of the listed proteins play a role in the pathogenesis of AD (Alzheimer Disease)
Answer: All of them

Q20: What is the formal name for all prion diseases in humans?
Answer: Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathies

Q21: Protein A will fold into its native state only when protein B is also present in the solution. However protein B can fold itself into native confirmation without the presence of protein A. Which of the following is true?
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q22: Which of the following is a function of chaperone protein?
Answer: It rescues proteins not to fold improperly and allows them to fold properly

Q23: A chart used to determine the offspring of a genetic cross is called a Punnet square.
Answer: 1

Q24: An individual with blood type A marries an individual with blood type B. What blood types could their offspring exhibit?
Answer: all of these are possible

Q25: A man is homozygous recessive for seven(7) of these ten genes, and he is heterozygous for the other three(3). How many genotypically different types of sperm could he produce?
Answer: 8

Q26: Albinism in humans is inherited as a simple recessive trait. For the following situation determine the genotypes of the parents. Two normal parents have five children, four normal and one albino.
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q27: Based on Mendelian inheritance, if crossed two heterozygous plants, how many of the offspring will also be heterozygous?
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q28: In each case where Mendel crossed true breeding plants as parents, the offspring displayed only one of the two traits seen in the parents. This observation supports which principle of genetics?
Answer: dominance and recessiveness

Q29: For some alleles, allelic expression is parent-of-origin specific. This phenomenon is known as genomic imprinting.
Answer: 1

Q30: A gene interaction in which a pair of recessive genes at one locus prevents expression of a dominant allele at another locus is called
Answer: recessive epistasis.

Q31: Intragenic interactions are interactions that occur
Answer: between two alleles of the same gene

Q32: Penetrance and expressivity are influenced by
Answer: both of them

Q33: A region of DNA is imprinted through:
Answer: DNA methylation

Q34: MN blood group in humans illustrates Co-dominance pattern of inheritance.
Answer: 1

Q35: Roughly what percentage of our genome is made up of protein coding sequence?
Answer: 2%

Q36: One of the signs for Kuru was uncontrolled laughing, leading to the nickname "laughing disease."
Answer: 1

Q37: The center of AD pathogenesis overproduction
Answer: Aβ42 peptide

Q38: Which of the listed are components of 'quality control' (QC) system
Answer: A and B

Q39: Misfolding is influenced by
Answer: All of them

Q40: Phenotype refers to an organism's physical appearance
Answer: 1

Q41: Pseudogenes are DNA sequences, that closely resemble the known genes but are nonfunctional
Answer: 1

Q42: Which of the following type of the chromosome is not found in the human being
Answer: Telocentric

Q43: How is the banding pattern of a chromosome useful?
Answer: All above listed

Q44: Which of the following types of information are needed to construct a karyogram?
Answer: Size of the chromosomes

Q45: XX male and XY female are rare genetic disorder in human. They are due to
Answer: [Too long – skipped]

Q46: X inactivation occurs randomly at about 16th day post fertilization, when the female embryo consists of about 200-400 cells
Answer: 1

Q47: The telomere regions gradually shorten with cell division and this correlates with the induction of cellular senescence
Answer: 1

Q48: Which of the following best describes X chromosome inactivation in females?
Answer: It produces dosage compensation for X-linked genes

Q49: Chromosomes are classified into
Answer: seven groups

Q50: Mark the correct statement
Answer: all correct

Q51: X chromosome inactivation normally take place in both male and female
Answer: 0

Q52: Which type of chromosomes is not seen in human cell
Answer: Telocentric

Q53: Chromosomes are classified as ______ when the centromere is very close to the center
Answer: metacentric

Q54: Mark the correct statement about the pseudogenes:
Answer: All correct

Q55: Telomeres are usually rich in which nucleotide?
Answer: Guanine

Q56: The risk of having a baby with Down syndrome is greater among mothers age 35 and older.
Answer: 1

Q57: Turner syndrome is caused by a missing or incomplete X chromosome.
Answer: 1

Q58: Name of the Trisomy 18 is:
Answer: Edwards syndrome

Q59: Match the incorrect statement
Answer: [Invalid – needs review]

Q60: Autosomal trisomies is associated with following characteristic except of
Answer: long life expectancy

Q61: Stocky build, arms that turn out slightly at the elbow, a short webbed neck, and a low hairline at the back of the neck—Common physical symptoms of
Answer: Turner Syndrome

Q62: In male sex chromosome aneuploidy can be due to abnormal numbers of
Answer: both

Q63: Phenylketonuria PKU is an autosomal dominant disorder
Answer: 0

Q64: Presence of a 'cherry-red' spot in the retina characteristic symptom of Tay-Sachs disease
Answer: 1

Q65: PKU is caused by a mutation in a
Answer: PAH gene

Q66: A baby girl presents with bilateral inguinal masses that are thought to be hernias but are found to be testes in the inguinal canals. What is her disorder?
Answer: androgen insensitivity syndrome

Q67: Which disease is treated by a low-phenylalanine diet
Answer: Phenilketonuria

Q68: Tay-Sachs disease shows autosomal recessive inheritance. Parents of a newly diagnosed affected child are referred for genetic counseling. It would be correct to tell them that:
Answer: the probability that each parent is a carrier is 100%

Q69: CF (cystic fibrosis) mainly affects which body system?
Answer: B and C

Q70: Leri Weill dyschondrosteosis is the X linked disorder
Answer: 1

Q71: DNA analysis in Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy demonstrates a deletion or duplication in the dystrophin gene
Answer: 1

Q72: A colour blind girl is rare because she will be born only when
Answer: her father and maternal grandfather were colour blind

Q73: A genetically diseased father marries with a normal female and gives birth to 3 carrier girls and 5 normal sons. It may be which type of genetic disease?
Answer: sex-linked recessive

Q74: Haemophilic man marries a normal(homozygous) woman. Their off springs will be
Answer: all normal.

Q75: The most noticeable abnormalities—bowed legs or knock knees characteristic for
Answer: hypophosphatemic rickets

Q76: What gender is most affected by Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
Answer: Boys

Q77: Red blood cells only become sickled-shaped when they lose their oxygen
Answer: 1

Q78: Sickle cell anemia is:
Answer: always caused by the same point mutation in the beta-globin gene.

Q79: All of the following are examples of mutations which have been observed on a b-thalassemia allele except:
Answer: A missense mutation in codon 6 of the b-globin gene, substituting valine for glutamic acid.

Q80: The major abnormal form of hemoglobin that accumulates in a fetus with the severe form of a-thalassemia (hydrops fetalis) is composed of:
Answer: A tetramer of 4 γ-subunits (γ4)

Q81: α-Thalassemia most commonly results from which of the following genetic lesions?
Answer: Gene deletion

Q82: In case of missing one of the four alpha chain genes, clinical phenotype is called
Answer: Silent Carrier

Q83: One mitochondria contains dozens of copies of its mitochondrial genome
Answer: 1

Q84: Mutation rate in nuclear genome is much higher than in Mitochondrial genome
Answer: 0

Q85: Mark the incorrect statement regarding mitochondria genome
Answer: Mitochondria DNA is single stranded.

Q86: Which of the following sentence is correct about mitochondria genome?
Answer: All correct

Q87: Allolactose is a co-repressor for lac operon
Answer: 0

Q88: Tryptophan, the end-product of the enzymes encoded by the trp operon, therefore acts as a
Answer: co-repressor

Q89: In prokaryotes the regulation of gene expression mostly takes place at the level of
Answer: transcription

Q90: Enhancers have the ability to greatly increase the expression of genes in their vicinity.
Answer: 1

Q91: Gene regulation in eukaryotes may be influenced by
Answer: all of them

Q92: Appropriate cyclin are synthesized at the start of each phase of the cell cycle and destroyed before the cell proceeds to the next phase:
Answer: 1

Q93: Which of the following describe(s) cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk)?
Answer: Both B and C are true.

Q94: In order to enter the cell cycle a cell must be stimulated from outside. What type of molecule provides this stimulation?
Answer: mitogens and growth factors

Q95: Which of the following is true about Cdks?
Answer: They activate protein by phosphorylating them

Q96: The cell is not allowed to pass the cell cycle restriction point if DNA damage is detected. Which of the following proteins are involved in detection of DNA damage and inhibition of the cycle at the restriction point?
Answer: P53

Q97: The abnormal conformational transition from alpha helix to beta sheet exposes hydrophobic amino acid residues and promotes protein aggregation.
Answer: 1

Q98: Which of the following is a possible role of ubiquitin?
Answer: Directs degradation

Q99: The different forms of a gene are known as alleles
Answer: 1

Q100: If Mr. and Mrs. Fecundity, both having blood type B, have 12 children, 3/4 of whom are type B and 1/4 of whom are O, what are the genotypes of the parents?
Answer: BO/BO

Q101: A family of six includes four children, each of whom has a different blood type: A, B, AB and O. What are the genotypes of parents for this trait?
Answer: AO/BO

Q102: A man with blood type B, with one parent of blood type O, marries a woman with blood type AB. What will be the theoretical percentage of their children with blood type B?
Answer: 50%

Q103: Phenotypic ratios of 3:1 in the offspring explain the principle of ______.
Answer: complete Dominance

Q104: Rh+ was found to be dominant over the absence of the blood factor (Rh). Under normal Mendelian inheritance, which of the following statements is FALSE?
Answer: Two Rh- parents could have an Rh+ child.

Q105: Pleiotropy is when one gene influences multiple phenotypic traits
Answer: 1

Q106: Which of the following is an example of non-Mendelian inheritance?
Answer: Eye color

Q107: The inheritance of an ABO blood group illustrates:
Answer: Multiple allelism

Q108: Phenotypic ratios of 1:2:1 in the offspring explain the principle of ______.
Answer: Incomplete dominance

Q109: A man and his wife both have normal color vision, but a daughter has red-green color blindness, a sex-linked recessive trait. The man sues his wife for divorce on grounds of infidelity. Can genetics provide evidence supporting his case?
Answer: yes

Q110: D and G group of chromosomes bear an "s" (satellite) encodings r RNA gene
Answer: 1

Q111: The X is a large submetacentric chromosome
Answer: 1

Q112: Females with a 46,XY karyotype have lost
Answer: the testis-determining region of the Y chromosome.

Q113: Centromeres -- primary constriction site in the chromosomes.
Answer: 1

Q114: The type of Polymorphism, that consists of stretches of DNA composed of units of two, three or four nucleotides repeated between one and few dozen time at a particular site is:
Answer: Microsatellite polymorphism

Q115: For DNA fingerprinting largely used
Answer: minisatellite polymorphism

Q116: The human genome contains approximately
Answer: 20,000 protein coding genes

Q117: Which of the following is correct regarding Telomeres
Answer: all correct

Q118: Patients with Kleinfelter Syndrome are typically female
Answer: 0

Q119: Which of the listed pregnant women has high risk having a Down syndrome fetus?
Answer: a 41-year-old mother of a previous trisomy 21 child

Q120: Which syndrome is a syndrome caused by the deletion of a small piece of chromosome 22?
Answer: DiGeorge Syndrome

Q121: Which of the following is the cause of complete monosomy?
Answer: Nondisjunction

Q122: Which of the following is not a symptom of Turner's syndrome?
Answer: Swollen ears

Q123: Number of Barr bodies in XXXX female is
Answer: 3

Q124: Rett syndrome X-Linked Dominant Disorders with equal Male and female Lethality
Answer: 0

Q125: Myotonic dystrophy -DM1 is caused by the expansion of the trinucleotide repeat CTG in the 3'-untranslated region - 3′ UTR- of the DMPK gene.
Answer: 1

Q126: Rett syndrome and some variant forms of the condition are caused by mutations in the
Answer: MECP2 gene.

Q127: Causes of Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia (CAH) is a deficiency of 21-hydroxylase which is produced in
Answer: Chromosome 6

Q128: Mutations in an X-linked gene, MECP2 cause
Answer: Rett syndrome

Q129: Which of the following diseases is NOT inherited as an autosomal recessive?
Answer: Marfan syndrome

Q130: The TYR gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called tyrosinase. Mutation in this gene reason for:
Answer: Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA)

Q131: If the hemophiliac male mates with a normal female, all the sons will be affected
Answer: 0

Q132: In hydrops fetalis with Hb Bart's, 2 α globin loci are deleted
Answer: 0

Q133: HbF (α2γ2) - In adults the normal range of Hb F is about 1%.
Answer: 1

Q134: The mitochondrial genome is linear and enveloped
Answer: 0

Q135: The mitochondrial genome contains 13 proteins coding genes
Answer: 1

Q136: Which of the listed is false option about mitochondria genome
Answer: The mitochondrial genomes are inherited equally from both parents.

Q137: The system controlling tryptophan expression is a repressible system
Answer: 1

Q138: Nucleosomal chromatin can be remodeled in the following ways except
Answer: by decapping of m-RNA

Q139: Which of the following are not matched correctly?
Answer: all are matched correctly

Q140: Working sequence of cyclins is: D-E-A-B
Answer: 1

Q141: At which cell cycle checkpoint is the cell cycle halted if the cell's DNA is damaged?
Answer: G1 -- S

Q142: Upstream regions which are essential for correct transcription are called
Answer: promoter

Q143: The humans genome express approximately ______ TFs(transcription factors)
Answer: 3000

Q144: Mendel's Law of Dominance states that alleles are separated during meiosis?
Answer: 0

Q145: Diseases of multifactorial inheritance result from a complex interaction of the effects of multiple different genes with environmental factors.
Answer: 1

Q146: Suppose a white-furred rabbit breeds with a black-furred rabbit and all of their offspring have a phenotype of gray fur. What does the gene for fur color in rabbits appear to be an example of?
Answer: Incomplete dominance

Q147: If two genes experience independent assortment, which assumption is most likely true?
Answer: the genes are located on the different chromosomes or are far apart of the same chromosome

Q148: Which type of inheritance results in continuous variation often a bell-shaped curve.
Answer: polygenic

Q149: During the meiosis X and Y chromosome exchange
Answer: PAR region

Q150: The Bombay Phenotype is the example of
Answer: recessive epistasis.

Q151: The genes that Mendel worked with were
Answer: 100% penetrant with 100% expressivity

Q152: Obesity, excessive and indiscriminate eating habits, small hands and feet, short stature, hypogonadism, mental retardation characteristic symptoms of
Answer: Prader-Willi syndrome

Q153: Which of the following is true
Answer: All correct

Q154: Mark correct statement regarding X inactivation
Answer: All correct

Q155: Hayflick limit defines the number of possible cell divisions and depends on the length of chromosomal telomeres, which decreases in standard cells with every cell division
Answer: 1

Q156: Short stature, intellectual disability, "elfin like" facial features, a stellate pattern to the iris, characteristic for
Answer: William syndrome

Q157: During the meiosis X and Y chromosome exchange
Answer: PAR region

Q158: In case of pseudoachondroplasia(a type of dwarfism) phenotype, genotype is
Answer: heterozygous

Q159: Histone modifications includes:
Answer: all of them

Q160: Which of the following is characteristic to autosomal recessive disease?
Answer: It affects both sexes equally.

Q161: Mark incorrect option. Marfan syndrome features may include
Answer: bowed legs or knock knees

Q162: Hemophilia is a classic X-linked recessive disorder in which the blood fails to clot normally.
Answer: 1

Q163: Sex-linked recessive traits can be seen only in men, because they result from genes located on the X chromosome.
Answer: 1

Q164: What physical features would you see in a person with fragile X syndrome
Answer: Enlarged ears, long face, and prominent chin

Q165: Match incorrect statement regarding Oculocutaneous albinism (OCA)
Answer: All correct

Q166: Which type of alpha thalassemia is not survivable?
Answer: Hydrops Fetalis

Q167: HbF structure is
Answer: α2γ2

Q168: Which of the listed below show a distinctive pattern of mitochondria genome inheritance
Answer: All of the listed

Q169: Which of the listed correct about replicative segregation.
Answer: All correct

Q170: Polar substances are ______; nonpolar substances are ______.
Answer: hydrophilic; hydrophobic

Q171: Meiosis II during oogenesis promptly resumes when fertilization occurs.
Answer: True

Q172: Hydrophilic amino acids will always move to the ______ of a protein.
Answer: Outside

Q173: Disorder results from mutations in the fibrillin-1 (FBN1) gene on chromosome 15 is
Answer: Marfan syndrome

Q174: Match the correct statement about X-Linked Recessive Inheritance
Answer: all correct

Q175: The β-globin mutations have no prenatal consequences, because γ-globin is the major β-like globin before birth
Answer: 1

Q176: In sickle cell syndrome HBS illustrated as
Answer: α2β2 6Glu→Val

Q177: Characteristic of sickle cell syndromes
Answer: all of the above

Q178: Operon is a group of genes regulated and expressed together as a unit, operator is the place near to promoter, to which a repressor protein binds
Answer: 1

Q179: Regarding to the X-linked genes males are?
Answer: Hemizygotes

Q180: Which of the following are the properties of enzyme telomerase?
Answer: All of the above

Q181: If the poly-A tail is shortened to less than about 30 nucleotides, the mRNA becomes unstable
Answer: 1

Q182: In normal cells, the p53 protein level is low
Answer: 1

Q183: Genotype refer to the genetic make-up of an organism
Answer: 1

Q184: Smallest chromosome in the human karyotype is
Answer: 21 chromosome

Q185: Here is normal human karyotype A = 6, B = 4, C = 16, D = 6, E = 6, F = 4, G = 4. To whom it belongs:
Answer: Female

Q186: Homozygous condition means, identical alleles of the same gene.
Answer: 1

Q187: Cri-du-chat syndrome in humans is caused by the
Answer: loss of half of the short arm of chromosome 5

Q188: The reason why haemophilia is more commonly observed in human males than in females is due to
Answer: the disease is due to X-linked recessive mutation

Q189: Why are genetic disorders such as haemophilia and Duchenne muscular dystrophy more prevalent in males than females?
Answer: Because they are X-linked recessive disorders

Q190: Tetramer is called Hb H in case
Answer: β4

Q191: The gene that code for the beta subunit of the hemoglobin protein allocated:
Answer: on chromosome 11

Q192: Minisatellite polymorphism is largely used for DNA fingerprinting
Answer: 1

Q193: The α chain of the hemoglobin has ______ amino acids residues:
Answer: 141

Q194: The genes for the β and β-like chains are clustered tandemly on
Answer: chromosome 11

Q195: How do Prader-Willi syndrome and Angelman syndrome differ?
Answer: Prader-Willi syndrome is associated with problems in the paternal chromosome, while Angelman syndrome is associated with problems in the maternal chromosome.

Q196: Which of them is not X-linked condition:
Answer: Cystic fibrosis

Q197: Protein complexes that break down proteins are called proteasomes
Answer: 1

Q198: p53 proteins have three major functions: growth arrest, DNA repair and apoptosis
Answer: 1

Q199: In case of ABO blood group, A allele is dominant over B allele
Answer: 0

Q200: Single nucleotide polymorphism are common and are observed on average once every 1000 base pair in genome
Answer: 1

Q201: Which symptom in an infant or young child might mean CF?
Answer: All of the above

Q202: Albinism is a congenital disorder resulting from the lack of which enzyme?
Answer: tyrosinase

Q203: Which of the following is the example triplet repeat disorders
Answer: Huntington disease

Q204: Acetyl groups can be added to both arginine and lysine residues in histones H3 and this change has been correlated with gene activity
Answer: 1

Q205: Characteristics controlled by more than one gene, each of which may have two or more alleles, is known as codominance
Answer: 0

Q206: What if the cell is found in the environment, that is rich in lactose and glucose?
Answer: lac operon will be inhibited

Q207: Gene regulatory elements are specific cis-acting DNA sequences that are recognized by trans-acting transcription factors
Answer: 1

Q208: Proteins that are involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, and that show fluctuations in concentration during the cell cycle, are called
Answer: cyclins.

Q209: Fragile X Syndrome is caused by unstable repeat expansion, a massive expansion of CGG trinucleotide.
Answer: 1

Q210: Many different genes and many different types of cells in an organism share the same transcription factors
Answer: 1

Q211: Amyloid plaques are found inside of AD neurons
Answer: 0

Q212: The X is a large submetacentric chromosome, contain about 1500 genes on it and most of which are related to sex characteristics.
Answer: 0

Q213: Which of the following is called "gene poor" chromosome
Answer: Y chromosome

Q214: SWI/SNF complex is a proteins, that activate transcription
Answer: 1

Q215: X chromosomes belong to the following group of chromosomes
Answer: C group

Q216: Enhancers are transcriptional regulatory sequences that function by enhancing the activity of
Answer: RNA polymerase at a single promoter site

Q217: A 30-year-old man is phenotypically normal, but two of his siblings died from infantile Tay-Sachs disease, an autosomal recessive condition that is lethal by the age of 5. What is the risk that this man is a heterozygous carrier of the disease-causing mutation?
Answer: 2/3

Q218: A 36-year-old woman gives birth at 34 weeks' gestation to a male infant who lives for only 1 hour after delivery. On physical examination, the infant is at the 30th percentile for height and weight. Anomalies include microcephaly, a cleft lip and palate, and postaxial polydactyly, with six digits on each hand and foot. Which of the following karyotypes is most likely to be present in this infant?
Answer: 47, XY, +13

Q219: A 40-year-old pregnant woman is very concerned about chromosomal abnormalities in her fetus. She undergoes amniocentesis, and the fetus is demonstrated to have the karyotype 47 XXX. Which of the following is the most likely outcome of this pregnancy?
Answer: phenotypically normal female.

Q220: The protein p21 is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKI), that can inhibit the activity of CDKs. Which checkpoint is it associated with?
Answer: G1 phase

Q221: A 3-year-old boy is brought to the physician because of progressive developmental delay, ataxia, seizures, and inappropriate laughter. The child has a normal karyotype of 46,XY, but DNA analysis shows that he has inherited both of his number 15 chromosomes from his father. These findings are most likely to be present with which of the following?
Answer: Genomic imprinting

Q222: A 22-year-old male has a long face, large forehead, ears and jaw, large testes, autism, speech and language delays, and hand flapping. His only sister is normal except for extreme shyness. The phenotypic pattern of this man's disorder is best described as which one of the following?
Answer: Variable expressivity

Q223: A 25-year-old woman has mild expression of hemophilia A. A genetic diagnosis reveals that she is a heterozygous carrier of a mutation in the X-linked factor VIII gene. What is the most likely explanation for mild expression of the disease in this individual?
Answer: A high proportion of the X chromosomes carrying the mutation are active in this woman

Q224: An infant appeared normal at birth, but at 6 months is noted to have worsening motor incoordination and mental obtundation. On examination, the infant has retinal pallor with a prominent red spot in the macula. Flaccid paralysis develops by 1 year of age. Based on the figure, which of the following mutations most likely occurred?
Answer: Frameshift

Q225: A 22-year-old primigravida (pregnant for the first time) notes absent fetal movement for 2 days. The fetus is delivered stillborn at 19 weeks' gestation. The macerated fetus shows marked hydrops fetalis and a large posterior cystic hygroma of the neck. At autopsy, internal anomalies are seen, including aortic coarctation and a horseshoe kidney. Which of the following karyotypes is most likely to be present in cells obtained from the fetus?
Answer: 45,X

Q226: What is the main structural difference between the normal cellular protein (PrPC) and the infectious prion protein (PrPSc)?
Answer: different three dimensional folding pattern

Q227: How does the cell-cycle control system regulate the cell cycle?
Answer: By increasing and decreasing cyclins concentrations

Q228: What is the most likely mode of transmission of this disease?
Answer: X-linked recessive

Q229: What is the probability?
Answer: 1/4

Q230: What pattern of inheritance does this pedigree demonstrate?
Answer: mitochondrial

Q231: Prader-Willi syndrome is only caused by an error in maternal imprinting.
Answer: 0

Q232: Which of the following terms describes the occurrence of multiple organ systems being involved by a single disease-causing mutation?
Answer: Pleiotropy

Q233: Which of the following best characterizes Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium?
Answer: The frequency of heterozygous carriers of an autosomal recessive mutation can be estimated if one knows the incidence of affected homozygotes in the population.

Q234: Mental retardation has affected several generations of a family, and most of the affected individuals have been males. The severity of mental retardation has increased with each passing generation. Genetic testing is performed, and about 20% of the males who have the genetic abnormality are unaffected. Which of the following mechanisms is most likely to produce this genetic condition?
Answer: Trinucleotide repeat mutation

Q235: A man who is affected with hemophilia A (X-linked recessive) mates with a woman who is a heterozygous carrier of this disorder. What proportion of this couple's daughters will be affected, and what proportion of the daughters will be heterozygous carriers?
Answer: 50%; 50%

Q236: Which of the following options is the most likely explanation of the above pedigree.
Answer: Mitochondrial

Q237: A large, 3 generation family in whom multiple members are affected with a rare, undiagnosed disease is being studied. Affected males never produce affected children, but affected females do produce affected children of both sexes when they mate with unaffected males. What is the most likely mode of inheritance?
Answer: X-linked recessive

Q238: Cells that die as a result of acute injury call apoptosis
Answer: 0

Q239: A 22-year-old man has a sudden loss of vision in the right eye. On physical examination, there is a subluxation of the crystalline lens of the right eye. On auscultation of the chest, a midsystolic click is audible. An echocardiogram shows a floppy mitral valve and dilated aortic arch. The patient's brother and his cousin are similarly affected. A genetic defect involving which of the following substances is most likely to be present in this patient?
Answer: Fibrillin-1

Q240: A 19-year-old man is referred to a neurologist because of failing eyesight and progressive muscle weakness. The neurologist takes a history and finds that several of the patient's male and female relatives have similar symptoms. His mother, her brother and sister, and two of the aunt's children are affected, but the uncle's children are not. Which of the following types of genetic disorders is most likely to be present in this patient?
Answer: Mitochondrial mutation

Q241: Gaucher disease is caused by a mutation of the gene encoding
Answer: glucocerebrosidase

Q242: A 27-year-old man comes to the physician for an infertility work-up. He and his wife have been trying to conceive a child for 6 years. Physical examination shows bilateral gynecomastia, reduced testicular size, reduced body hair, and increased length between the soles of his feet and the pubic bone. A semen analysis indicates oligospermia. Laboratory studies show increased follicle-stimulating hormone level and slightly decreased testosterone level. Which of the following karyotypes is most likely to be present in this man?
Answer: 47,XXY

Q243: A pharmacologist employed by a pharmaceutical company is investigating the mechanism of action of a new drug that significantly inhibits the division of tumor cells obtained from patients with acute myelogenous leukemia. He has determined that the drug serves as a potent inactivator of chromatin-modifying activity that up-regulates the expression of a cluster of oncogenes in these tumor cells. Which type of chromatin-modifying activity is most likely stimulated by the enzyme target of this drug?
Answer: Acetylation of core histones

Q244: A couple is having trouble bringing a pregnancy to term. They have experienced three miscarriages in the past 2 years and want to understand what the problem may be. The miscarriages were most likely caused by which one of the following?
Answer: Autosomal monosomies

Q245: A 24-year-old woman comes to the physician because she has been unable to bear children during her 3 years of marriage. She has never had a menstrual period. On physical examination, she has normal breast development and scanty axillary and pubic hair. Pelvic examination shows a short, blind-ending vagina with no palpable uterus or adnexa. Chromosomal analysis indicates a 46,XY karyotype. Which of the following findings is most likely to be present?
Answer: Abnormal androgen receptor

Q246: A 39-year-old woman gives birth to a term infant with a right transverse palmar crease, low-set ears, oblique palpebral fissures, and a heart murmur. to childhood and exhibits only mild mental retardation. Which of the following chromosomal abnormalities is most likely to be present in the somatic cells of this child?
Answer: Mosaicism

Q247: What is the probabilities of 14th to be affected
Answer: 1/36