Q1: Which of the following is the form of communication?  
Answer: All of the above  

Q2: Which factors must be taken into account that influence doctor-patient communication?  
Answer: All of the above  

Q3: Which factors can influence on relation and communication with people?  
Answer: All of the above  

Q4: The purpose of health history and physical assessment is:  
Answer: All of the above  

Q5: Professional development for medical professionals is helpful for:  
Answer: All of the above  

Q6: The now stage, the transition stage and the regroup stage are the stages of self-development awareness tool by Jack and Miller (2008).  
Answer: 1  

Q7: Open questions should be used as much as possible particularly at the start of the interview.  
Answer: 1  

Q8: Evidence based clinical practice is performed by implementation of most effective clinical interventions.  
Answer: 1  

Q9: Communication skills do not turn theory into practice.  
Answer: 0  

Q10: Communication with patients does not need to use a range of communication skills and technologies.  
Answer: 0  

Q11: Write safe prescriptions for different types of drugs is a clinical skill.  
Answer: 1  

Q12: Give intramuscular and subcutaneous injections is a clinical skill.  
Answer: 1  

Q13: Good communication between doctor and patient does not heighten perceptions by patients that they are being supported by their physicians.  
Answer: 0  

Q14: Health communication helps patients to express their physical and emotional needs.  
Answer: 1  

Q15: Communication skills do not need to be intentionally developed and refined as other essential clinical skills.  
Answer: 0  

Q16: Availability of and access to medical information for the patients results in more trust in the 'doctor's paternal' system and lower patient expectations.  
Answer: 0  

Q17: Doctor-patient relationship style "Activity/passivity" means full exploitation of medical power and authority.  
Answer: 1  

Q18: According to Berne are known 5 "Ego-states": parent, child, adolescent, adult and elderly.  
Answer: 0  

Q19: Catalytic category is of authoritative according to Heron's six categories of intervention.  
Answer: 0  

Q20: According to Bernes' Transactional Analysis those who are involved in game start out in one of three classical game roles: Persecutor, Rescuer or Victim.  
Answer: 1  

Q21: Adult ego state is the character or personality who finds fault, displays prejudices, disapproves and prevents others from feeling good about themselves.  
Answer: 0  

Q22: Generally, the most effective behavior, human relations, and performance come from the natural child ego state.  
Answer: 0  

Q23: Each transaction in Transactional Analysis is made up of a stimulus and a response.  
Answer: 1  

Q24: In transactional analysis there are two basic levels of transaction: social and psychological.  
Answer: 1  

Q25: Social level of transaction in transactional analysis is sensed and psychological level is observable.  
Answer: 0  

Q26: In transactional analysis crossed transactions could hurt.  
Answer: 1  

Q27: In facilitative style of Heron's model therapist is giving information, challenging the other person or suggesting what the other person should do.  
Answer: 0  

Q28: In facilitative style of Heron's model therapist is drawing out ideas, solutions, self-confidence, and so on, from the client that can help them to reach their own solutions or decisions.  
Answer: 1  

Q29: Informative category of Heron's model explicitly directs the patient by giving advice and direction.  
Answer: 0  

Q30: Prescriptive category in Heron's model provides information to instruct and guide the patient.  
Answer: 0  

Q31: Strategies in motivational interviewing include looking out for resistance.  
Answer: 1  

Q32: Brief intervention therapy aims to elicit hopeful statements from the patient.  
Answer: 1  

Q33: Negative reinforcement strengthens a behavior by providing a consequence an individual finds rewarding.  
Answer: 0  

Q34: A patient in the pre-contemplation stage does not intend make any change to their health behavior in the foreseeable future.  
Answer: 1  

Q35: Classical conditioning is to condition someone biologically to expect a rewarding or punishing experience when an environmental trigger is present.  
Answer: 1  

Q36: Motivational interviewing Is about confronting the person about their health risk behavior.  
Answer: 0  

Q37: Important skills for communication in medical practice are all of the following except one:  
Answer: Not necessary to maintain accurate written or electronic records  

Q38: Which of the following is the clinical skill:  
Answer: Give intramuscular and subcutaneous injections  

Q39: Which of the following is the communication skill:  
Answer: Explain investigation  

Q40: Which of the following is NOT correct?  
Answer: Good communication does not encourage disclosure of worries and concerns that patients might otherwise not reveal  

Q41: Attention to feedback and corrective action is:  
Answer: The communicator's knowledge what kind of response is needed according to the feedback from the other  

Q42: Timing of social responses is:  
Answer: Communicator's skill to know when to speak, when to listen, when to interrupt or prompt, or when to take the lead or be led.  

Q43: Taking the role of the other is:  
Answer: Communicator's ability to put themselves in the shoes of the other in order to understand how they are seen.  

Q44: Which of the following is doctor related factor influencing communication:  
Answer: Self-confidence in ability to communicate  

Q45: Which type of following questions should be avoided during the interview with the patient:  
Answer: Leading questions for influence on patient to agree with the interviewer's viewpoint  

Q46: Signposting during a consultation:  
Answer: Indicates to the patient what you want to discuss next, e.g. "and now I would like to ask you a few more questions about..."  

Q47: Which of the following part of medical interview describes patient's lifestyle:  
Answer: The patient's smoking and drinking habits  

Q48: Which of the following is not dimension of patient-centered care:  
Answer: Complete trust in doctors  

Q49: Which of the following statements is not correct?  
Answer: The open area of Johari window is what we present to ourselves and is known to us  

Q50: Which of the following are the stages of self-development awareness tool by Jack and Miller (2008)?  
Answer: The now stage, the transition stage and the regroup stage  

Q51: All of the following is the purpose of writing down the patient's notes except one:  
Answer: Doesn't offer a basis for determining the educational needs of the client, family, and significant others.  

Q52: What is the impact of patient-centered care on nursing:  
Answer: Shifts focus from biological need to quality of life and self-care  

Q53: Which of the following is not example of vocal attending:  
Answer: Paraphrasing  

Q54: Which of the following is not one of seven dimensions of the chief complaint:  
Answer: The impact on patients' interpersonal relationships  

Q55: Which of the following is not a type of medical interview according to its purpose:  
Answer: Taking blood samples for lab investigations  

Q56: What kind of data makes up a physical assessment?  
Answer: Objective data  

Q57: What is the name of primary reason for what the patient is seeking medical attention:  
Answer: Chief complaint or concern  

Q58: For what is used CAGE questionnaire:  
Answer: To assess patient's alcohol abuse  

Q59: Which of the following is the patient's objective data:  
Answer: Physiologic quantities observed directly  

Q60: The SOAP note is a method of documentation to write out notes in a patient's chart and stands for:  
Answer: Subjective, objective, assessment, and plan  

Q61: Which of the following is false:  
Answer: Objective data is more important than subjective, because subjective data is lacking in quantification  

Q62: What is the chief complaint or concern?  
Answer: One of more symptoms or concerns for which the patient is seeking care or advice  

Q63: Which type of following questions is recommended to use during the medical interview:  
Answer: Open-ended questions to begin a medical interview  

Q64: What are the contextual variables that influence the way we approach professional development:  
Answer: Continuous education programs ongoing at the workplace  

Q65: Which of the following is not the key point of professional development?  
Answer: Personal judgement  

Q66: Exploring context in professional development means:  
Answer: Analyzing what is going around you  

Q67: Reflection on practice:  
Answer: Aids the medical professional to consider actions, decisions, and dilemmas arising from practice experience and consider them through analysis and evaluation  

Q68: Which of the following is not the stage of team development based on Tuckman's model:  
Answer: Developing  

Q69: In storming stage of a group development group members:  
Answer: Group identity is complete, group morale is high, and group loyalty is intense  

Q70: In Norming stage of a group development group members:  
Answer: Conflicts are resolved and there is a stronger sense of belonging to the group  

Q71: Which style of doctor/patient relationship is characterized by some involvement of patient within doctor's remit:  
Answer: Guidance/cooperation  

Q72: Which of the following is the part of psychosocial history of the patient:  
Answer: Education, life style, sexual history  

Q73: Which of the following is not a part of ID information of the patient:  
Answer: History of present illness  

Q74: Which of the statements below you think are assertive?  
Answer: No, thank you  

Q75: Which of the following is not advantage of written communication:  
Answer: It is not useful where record maintenance is required.  

Q76: Based on Belbin team roles the coordinator is defined as:  
Answer: Confident and promotes joint decision making  

Q77: The type of team leadership structure with clear delineation of responsibility, but good communication channels is often called:  
Answer: Democratic leadership style  

Q78: Which of the following is the type of democratic group leadership:  
Answer: The healthy hierarchy of a group which resembles a healthy family in which there is a clear delineation of responsibility, but good communication channels  

Q79: Reflection in practice (component of personal and professional development) is:  
Answer: Applying reflective skills during practice  

Q80: What is multidisciplinary team in healthcare:  
Answer: Group of people from two or more clinical disciplines with the aim to optimize patient's care  

Q81: Which of the following is the pattern of unhelpful behavior towards patients:  
Answer: Feeling under pressure to solve every problem, offer definitive answers to questions and create a feeling of certainty  

Q82: What we mean under the assertiveness:  
Answer: Expressing personal rights without denying the rights of others  

Q83: Which of the following is the "plant" team role according to Belbin:  
Answer: Creative and good at solving problems  

Q84: Information given to the patient during consultation could be categorized in following categories:  
Answer: All of the above  

Q85: Which of the following statement is true:  
Answer: The medical interview is the usual communication encounter between the doctor and the patient  

Q86: Classic "Seven dimensions" of the symptoms presented by the patient include all of the following except one:  
Answer: Privacy  

Q87: Past medical history of the patient should include:  
Answer: History of past illnesses and hospitalizations  

Q88: Which of the following is not the objective of medical interview:  
Answer: Refer the patient to other medical specialist  

Q89: Which of the following statements regarding giving medical information is not correct:  
Answer: Use long words and long sentences  

Q90: All of the following are the models of communication except one:  
Answer: Cultural model  

Q91: Which of the following is not non-verbal cues:  
Answer: The way patients describe their problems for signs of their underlying concerns  

Q92: A person can change the meaning of their message from enthusiasm to anger just by changing their:  
Answer: Intonation  

Q93: A nurse maintains an uncrossed arm and leg posture. This nonverbal behavior is reflective of following:  
Answer: Open posture when interacting with the client  

Q94: For what is used the acronym SOLER?  
Answer: To describe non verbal demonstration of listening  

Q95: Child ego state in Transactional Analysis:  
Answer: Is the archive of a person's total life experience from childhood to date, moments of which may be evoked and re-experienced in the present.  

Q96: Which types of transactions are there within ego states:  
Answer: Complementary, crossed, and ulterior  

Q97: In complementary transaction:  
Answer: Responses are predictable and appropriate.  

Q98: In ulterior transaction:  
Answer: Is one in which two ego states operate simultaneously and one message disguises the other.  

Q99: In crossed transaction:  
Answer: An inappropriate ego state is activated, producing an unexpected response.  

Q100: Which of the following statements is false:  
Answer: Strokes might not be unconditional  

Q101: The Nurturing Parent ego state:  
Answer: Is caring and concerned and may often appear as a mother-figure  

Q102: The Natural Child ego state:  
Answer: Is the curious and exploring person who is always trying out new stuff  

Q103: The Adult ego state:  
Answer: Is the 'grown up' rational person who talks reasonably and assertively, neither trying to control nor reacting aggressively towards others  

Q104: The Adaptive Child ego state:  
Answer: This type reacts to the world around them, either changing themselves to fit in and so being very good, or rebelling against the forces they feel and so being naughty.  

Q105: What is the therapeutic effect of good communication?  
Answer: Gain physical health benefits such as reduced pain and lowered blood pressure  

Q106: Circular model of communication:  
Answer: Shows more than a two-way interaction and the sender is getting feedback on how the message has been received  

Q107: Personal distance for interaction among good friends/family members is:  
Answer: 45-120 cm  

Q108: For effective communication is important:  
Answer: Understand the information and be able to convey it accurately  

Q109: Verbal attending to communication with the patient could be demonstrated by:  
Answer: Paraphrasing  

Q110: Para linguistics is:  
Answer: Relates to how it is said and includes voice tone, volume, speed of speech  

Q111: Which of the following statement is correct:  
Answer: The acronym SOLER is useful for non verbal demonstration of listening  

Q112: Type of non-vocal verbal communication is:  
Answer: Written words  

Q113: When comparing verbal and non-verbal communication, which of the following statement is correct:  
Answer: Verbal communication is discrete  

Q114: If you say to the store attendant "I want that one," and point to the dress in the display window, this gesture is:  
Answer: Illustrator  

Q115: If you look away or yawn to indicate that you are bored or would like for the speaker to stop talking, this gesture is:  
Answer: Regulator  

Q116: When a physiotherapist offers a recently paralyzed person practical suggestions as to how they may increase their mobility with the use of a wheelchair, which category of Heron's intervention is this:  
Answer: Prescriptive  

Q117: If the nurse provides information about therapeutic action of their medication such as the antidepressant, "usually starts to have an effect about 10 days to 2 weeks after you start taking it". - which category of Heron's interventions is this:  
Answer: Informative  

Q118: If the nurse tells the patient during the interview: "'I notice that you frequently complain about the way your wife talks to you", drawing their attention to a particular type of repetitive behavior- which category of Heron's interventions is this:  
Answer: Confronting  

Q119: If the nurse tells the patient during the interview: "you don't seem to agree with what I have suggested, so you must have your own thoughts about that" - which category of Heron's interventions is this:  
Answer: Supportive  

Q120: If the the counselor points out the unnamed emotion suggested by the client's verbal or non-verbal communication: 'you seem quite sad about this' - which category of Heron's interventions is this:  
Answer: Cathartic  

Q121: Which of the following statements is false:  
Answer: Basic philosophical assumption in Transactional Analysis is that people are not responsible for the decision they made, and their consequences  

Q122: Look at the next example of an exchange between a nurse tutor and a student nurse: Tutor: If you continue to turn up late for tutorials, I can't be expected to wait around for you I will have someone else in your place. Student: But I live further away than most people and have to rely on the bus. It's not fair. Which ago states tutor and student are adopting in this case?  
Answer: Parent - Child  

Q123: Look at the transactions in the example and point a correct answer below: Father: You'll never do it that way. You've got it all wrong! Small child (knocking over bricks deliberately): It's stupid anyway  
Answer: In this example we see father adopting critical parent state and giving child a negative stroke  

Q124: Point the correct match of the ego state and typical behavior bellow:  
Answer: Ego state "Adult" - typical behavior: relaxed, attentive  

Q125: Which of bellow mentioned categories is of authoritative type according to Heron's six categories of intervention:  
Answer: Informative  

Q126: Regarding giving bad news, which of the following you should do?  
Answer: Identify the patient's main concerns  

Q127: How is called attention episodes during communication with someone, according Berne:  
Answer: Stroke  

Q128: What to do if the patient becomes angry or violent after receiving bad news?  
Answer: You should be polite and firm.  

Q129: In Authoritative style by Heron's approach:  
Answer: Therapist is giving information, challenging the other person or suggesting what the other person should do  

Q130: What is the model of Transactional Analysis (TA):  
Answer: Transactional analysis is a model of communication developed by Eric Berne (1964)  

Q131: If the clinician dislikes the patient it can lead to superficial behavior.  
Answer: 1  

Q132: The less common element of an adversarial clinician-patient relationship is failed communication.  
Answer: 0  

Q133: Hostile, demanding, dissatisfied patient usually is not the reason for obstruction in communication.  
Answer: 0  

Q134: Using a neutral tone of voice, adopt an open body posture is a relevant strategy in dealing with angry patient.  
Answer: 1  

Q135: Becoming defensive is a relevant strategy in dealing with angry patient.  
Answer: 0  

Q136: In case of non-compliant patient there should be disease for which at least one treatment exists that if followed correctly, will markedly reduce the risk to length or quality of life.  
Answer: 1  

Q137: Seductive patient is defined as the patient whose feelings toward the physician repeat other important relationships within the patient's life.  
Answer: 1  

Q138: Manipulative patients tend to exhibit impulsive behavior directed at obtaining what they want, and it is often difficult to distinguish from borderline personality disorder.  
Answer: 1  

Q139: Verbal, written, video, texting, email, leaflets, books, websites - all are relevant communication tools with infants.  
Answer: 0  

Q140: Involving children and young people in discussions about their care is not relevant strategy of communication with them.  
Answer: 0  

Q141: In developing action steps for professional development you don't need to determine the things you would like or have to change in.  
Answer: 0  

Q142: Once you have begun to talk about health behavior with the patient, it is important to assess how ready they are to change their health behavior.  
Answer: 1  

Q143: Once the patient has a clear view of the need of behavior change and the benefits, it is important to conduct motivational interview using SMART principles.  
Answer: 1  

Q144: Motivational interview is not recommended for conditions that have poor treatment adherence, such as addictions, bulimia, obesity and psychosis.  
Answer: 0  

Q145: The principle of cognitive dissonance is developing discrepancy between behavior and values of the patient.  
Answer: 1  

Q146: Unconditional positive regard in Roger's person-centered counseling means acceptance, respect, sympathy, and love regardless of performance.  
Answer: 1  

Q147: A person with a serious health problem due to their behavior or lifestyle is often in denial about the reality of their situation.  
Answer: 1  

Q148: The behavior change model considers how patients make health-related behavioral decisions, the stages they go through, and how they move from one stage to another.  
Answer: 1  

Q149: Reinforcement is a positive environmental effect that is a consequence of behavior.  
Answer: 1  

Q150: Contemplation is the stage in which the patient is intending to take action in the immediate future.  
Answer: 0  

Q151: At "preparation to change" stage patients are thinking about their health and lifestyle behavior and intending to do something about it, usually in a given time scale.  
Answer: 1  

Q152: Health professionals can accept a patient's capacity to give informed consent if they cannot understand the consequences of their decision to give or refuse consent.  
Answer: 0  

Q153: If a patient asks you what it means after a doctor has broken bad news to them you should ask what they understand about the information given to them.  
Answer: 1  

Q154: In reporting an incident or emergency, staff can be guided by the principles of the SBAR procedure.  
Answer: 1  

Q155: Using medical jargon is not mistake when teaching a patient.  
Answer: 0  

Q156: Over-identification (becoming too close emotionally) is the helpful behavior during communication with the patient.  
Answer: 0  

Q157: Health belief model proposes that some patients need cues in order to change some health-related behavior, and those are called cues to action.  
Answer: 1  

Q158: Aiming to improve your experience and skills so that challenges are seen as opportunities, not threats, will help you during medical practice.  
Answer: 1  

Q159: The agenda timekeeper helps the group to stay on track.  
Answer: 1  

Q160: The observer/commentator diffuses difficulty, can be distracting.  
Answer: 0  

Q161: In study groups is not recommended to rotate and share roles of leader (chair) and the secretary.  
Answer: 0  

Q162: Written communication about patients is an acquired skill, but also has legal consequences.  
Answer: 1  

Q163: Patients who are admitted to acute care are often acutely or critically ill, in pain, anxious, frightened and have different communication needs.  
Answer: 1  

Q164: Patients with acute conditions often never have impaired ability to communicate.  
Answer: 0  

Q165: Intoxication in patients in whatever form may lead to an acute confusional state or an impaired ability to communicate or process information effectively.  
Answer: 1  

Q166: If a nurse has to give evidence in a court of law, then they cannot claim privilege due to their professional position and patient confidentiality may have to be breached.  
Answer: 1  

Q167: Patients experiencing acute psychotic symptoms or disorientation are most likely to feel frightened by an unfamiliar environment and people they don't know.  
Answer: 1  

Q168: If you have a patient with a perceptual disturbance you should remove signs of authority, smile, wear jumper or cardigan over uniform (fluffy & cosy-looking).  
Answer: 1  

Q169: Non clinical situations like giving feedback to poorly performing trainees or colleagues might be an example of bad news.  
Answer: 1  

Q170: The down side of collusional behavior towards patient is that collusion occasionally reflects control over the patient.  
Answer: 1  

Q171: The positive side of denial in accepting bad news by the patient, is that denial can be an effective coping mechanism.  
Answer: 1  

Q172: Ambiguous loss is mainly experienced when someone has a cognitive impairment from dementia, a traumatic brain injury or a stroke.  
Answer: 1  

Q173: Written communication is necessary for legal and binding documentation.  
Answer: 1  

Q174: Adjourning is not one of the phases of Tuckman's group development.  
Answer: 0  

Q175: Multidisciplinary team work combines the strengths of two or more disciplines with the aim of identifying problems, revealing associations, working out solutions to problems, and applying these.  
Answer: 1  

Q176: Teamwork in healthcare does not reduce length of stay at the hospital.  
Answer: 0  

Q177: Association with higher job satisfaction in healthcare is the positive result of teamwork.  
Answer: 1  

Q178: Medical handover does not involve the exchange of clinically relevant information between health professionals about a patient.  
Answer: 0  

Q179: Professional development will help medical students to expand their conceptual understanding of being a medical professional.  
Answer: 1  

Q180: In developing action steps for professional development you don't need to determine the things you would like or have to change in.  
Answer: 0  

Q181: Keeping a record of those moments that have helped you to feel satisfied about yourself is not necessary for your professional development.  
Answer: 0  

Q182: Reflection is acknowledged as a key component in helping the practitioner to change perspective and develop new insights.  
Answer: 1  

Q183: Intuitive reflection is the method when on the spot or later critical thinking without specific tools, sleeping on problems, brainstorming, mind-mapping.  
Answer: 1  

Q184: Teamwork within and across healthcare disciplines is recognized as vital to protect vulnerable people.  
Answer: 1  

Q185: Re-forming stage of the group development by Tuckman occurs when the tasks are completed and there no longer is a need for the group to exist.  
Answer: 1  

Q186: When communicating in the Parental ego state, you avoid becoming the victim of the other person by controlling our response to the situation.  
Answer: 1  

Q187: Type of structure of the group with clear delineation of responsibility, but good communication channels is often called democratic leadership.  
Answer: 1  

Q188: Giving the patient unrealistic hope about the likely outcome of his or her illness is the helpful behavior towards the patient.  
Answer: 0  

Q189: For a single lay rescuer, ______ CPR is recommended in adults.  
Answer: Compression only  

Q190: For health care professionals, who are performing CPR, ______ ventilation should be started as early as possible, but this should not delay initiation of compressions or defibrillation.  
Answer: Bag valve mask  

Q191: In ______ style of Heron's six category intervention doctor explicitly directs the patient by giving advice and direction.  
Answer: Prescriptive  

Q192: In ______ style of Heron's six category intervention doctor provides information to instruct and guide the patient.  
Answer: Informative  

Q193: ______ constitutes a permanent legal record of the care that was or was not given to the patient.  
Answer: Medical records  

Q194: Informative and useful communication encourages patients to take more interest in their ______.  
Answer: Health  

Q195: ______ occurs whenever one person, in some way or another, transmits a message of some sort and someone else picks it up and interprets it.  
Answer: Communication  

Q196: Style of doctor-patient relationship where patient encouraged to use doctor's expertise to solve his or her health problems is called --- participation.  
Answer: Mutual  

Q197: ______ stage of behavior change model involves clear and realistic time-planned goals that are supported by others to ensure success.  
Answer: Action  

Q198: Patients in the ______ stage are working to prevent relapse and return to their old health and lifestyle behaviors.  
Answer: Maintain  

Q199: In circular model of communication the sender is getting ______ from the reciever on how the message has been received.  
Answer: Feedback  

Q200: The relationship between the nurse and the patient is often seen as a ______.  
Answer: Therapeutic relationship  

Q201: The part of the medical interview related to the experience of other members of family is called ______.  
Answer: Family history  

Q202: ______ is a unit of recognition, when one person recognizes another person either verbally or non verbally.  
Answer: Stroke  

Q203: When doctor obtains ______ from the patient he must be considered competent to sign the form.  
Answer: Consent  

Q204: ______ ego state incorporates the attitudes and behaviors (the don'ts, should, and ought) of parental figures.  
Answer: Parent  

Q205: ______ type by Berne characterized by behavior when the child is hateful or loving, impulsive, spontaneous or playful, self centered.  
Answer: Child ego  

Q206: ______ Ego state by Berne finds fault, displays prejudices, disapproves and prevents others from feeling good about themselves.  
Answer: Critical parent  

Q207: When communicating in the ______ ego state, you avoid becoming the victim of the other person by controlling our response to the situation.  
Answer: Adult  

Q208: All behavior, whether verbal or non-verbal, intentional or unintentional, is a form of ______.  
Answer: Communication  

Q209: Using an alcohol-based hand rub (ABHR) is the recommended method for hand hygiene if hands are not ______.  
Answer: Visibly soiled  

Q210: ______ communication provides ready records and references.  
Answer: Written  

Q211: ______ language is communication that focuses on professional expression with attention to rules, protocol, and appearance.  
Answer: Formal  

Q212: Skin cracks, dermatitis, or cuts can ______ bacteria and may place patients at an increased risk.  
Answer: Trap  

Q213: Wash your hands after blood or body fluid ______.  
Answer: Exposure  

Q214: If a patient has uncontrolled diarrhea, wear ______ when changing linen to prevent contamination of clothing and hands.  
Answer: Medical gown  

Q215: ______ language involves everyday words and expressions in a familiar group context.  
Answer: Casual  

Q216: ______ language is communication that focuses on professional expression with attention to rules, protocol, and appearance.  
Answer: Formal  

Q217: If a patient has uncontrolled diarrhea, wear ______ when changing linen to prevent contamination of clothing and hands.  
Answer: Gown and gloves  

Q218: Pulse oximetry can be useful as part of the assessment or monitoring of acutely _____.  
Answer: III patient  

Q219: Transcutaneous monitoring of oxygen saturations is also known as _____.  
Answer: Pulse oximetry  

Q220: _____ is a record or display of a person's heartbeat produced by an electrocardiograph.  
Answer: ECG  

Q221: Depolarization (reversal of this charge) results in movement of calcium ions across the cell membranes and subsequent cardiac muscle _____.  
Answer: Contraction  

Q222: In _____ transaction people appear to be complementary and socially acceptable even though they are not.  
Answer: Crossed  

Q223: _____ Ego state incorporates the attitudes and behaviors (the don'ts, should, and ought) of parental figures.  
Answer: Critical parent  

Q224: ______ Are ulteriorly motivated transactions that appear complementary on the surface but end in bad feelings.  
Answer: Ulterior transactions