Q1: The profunda brachii artery, the largest branch of the brachial artery  
Answer: 1  

Q2: The sciatic nerve innervates: all muscles in the posterior compartment of the thigh  
Answer: 1  

Q3: Femoral vein becomes the external iliac vein when it passes under the inguinal ligament to enter the abdomen  
Answer: 1  

Q4: The axillary artery is separated into 3 parts by pectoralis major  
Answer: 0  

Q5: Inferior mesenteric artery: Its branches include the right colic artery, several sigmoid arteries, and the superior rectal artery.  
Answer: 1  

Q6: The major artery of the arm, the brachial artery, is found in the posterior compartment of the arm  
Answer: 0  

Q7: The ulnar artery and ulnar nerve enter the hand on the lateral side of the wrist  
Answer: 0  

Q8: The major artery of the pelvis and perineum is the external iliac artery on each side  
Answer: 0  

Q9: The internal iliac artery originates from the common iliac artery on each side, and lies anteromedial to the sacro-iliac joint  
Answer: 1  

Q10: The mental artery enters the face through the mental foramen and supplies the chin  
Answer: 1  

Q11: The inferior vena cava ascends on the left side of the vertebral bodies and to the left of the abdominal aorta.  
Answer: 0  

Q12: In men, the testicular arteries originate from the internal iliac artery and descend into the scrotum through the inguinal canal to supply the testes  
Answer: 0  

Q13: The axillary nerve originates from the posterior cord of the spacupar plexus  
Answer: 0  

Q14: The axillary nerve innervates the deltoid and teres minor muscles  
Answer: 1  

Q15: The right recurrent laryngeal nerve originates in the thorax, whereas the left recurrent laryngeal nerve originates in the root of the neck  
Answer: 0  

Q16: Suprapleural membrane attaches to the transverse process of vertebra:  
Answer: CVII  

Q17: There are ten bronchopulmonary segments in right and nine in left lung  
Answer: 0  

Q18: Most commonly left coronary artery is dominant  
Answer: 0  

Q19: The major structure in the anterior mediastinum is a thyroid gland  
Answer: 0  

Q20: The azygos vein arises opposite vertebra LI or LII at the junction between the left ascending lumbar vein and the left subcostal vein  
Answer: 0  

Q21: The liver and gallbladder are in the right upper quadrant  
Answer: 1  

Q22: The stomach and spleen are in the left lower quadrant  
Answer: 0  

Q23: The posterior branches of the abdominal aorta are superior phrenic arteries, the lumbar arteries, and the median sacral artery  
Answer: 0  

Q24: Median sacral artery passes in an inferior direction, first over the anterior surface of the lower lumbar vertebrae and then over the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx  
Answer: 1  

Q25: The cardiac skeleton also serves as a dense connective tissue partition that electrically isolates the atria from the valves  
Answer: 0  

Q26: The right pump of heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and sends it to the body  
Answer: 0  

Q27: The middle meningeal artery is a branch of the mandibular artery  
Answer: 0  

Q28: In the fetus, the umbilical artery is large and carries blood from the placenta to the fetus  
Answer: 0  

Q29: A 60-year-old man who had a history of a chronic duodenal ulcer was admitted to the ER exhibiting signs of a severe internal hemorrhage. He was quickly diagnosed with a perforation of the posterior wall of the first part of the duodenum and erosion of an artery behind it by the gastric expellant. The artery is most likely:  
Answer: Gastroduodenal  

Q30: Which of the following artery supplies superior part of the abdominal wall at the deeper level?  
Answer: Superior epigastric artery  

Q31: All of the following arteries are branches of the anterior trunk of internal iliac artery EXCEPT:  
Answer: Lateral sacral artery  

Q32: What is the term for the abnormal dilation or ballooning of the abdominal aorta?  
Answer: Aneurysm  

Q33: Which of the following artery exits from pelvic cavity above the piriformis muscle?  
Answer: Superior gluteal artery  

Q34: From which artery arises superior vesicular artery  
Answer: Internal iliac artery  

Q35: External pudendal artery arises from:  
Answer: Femoral artery  

Q36: Internal pudendal artery participates in the blood supply of rectum by which artery?  
Answer: None of them above  

Q37: Which of the following artery is present in men but not in women?  
Answer: Inferior vesical  

Q38: All of the following arteries supply erectile tissue in men EXCEPT?  
Answer: Uterine artery  

Q39: Adductor region of thigh is supplied by:  
Answer: Obturator  

Q40: Which of the following artery passes between anterior rami of S1 and lumbosacral trunk?  
Answer: Superior gluteal  

Q41: A 17-year-old boy suffered multiple stab wounds on the upper part of the arm and requires surgery. If the brachia! artery were ligated at its origin, which of the following arteries would supply blood to the profunda brachii artery?  
Answer: Posterior humeral circumflex  

Q42: A patient complains if having pain with repetitive movement of his thumb. His physician performs Allen test and finds an insufficiency of the radial artery. Which of the following conditions would be a result of the radial artery stenosis.  
Answer: A marked decrease in the blood flow in the princeps pollicis artery  

Q43: Which of the following is not a direct branch of the axillary artery?  
Answer: Thoracodorsal  

Q44: If the second part of axillary artery was interrupted, collateral blood flow could pass from branches of the thyrocervical trunk into which artery?  
Answer: Circumflex scapular  

Q45: In a fracture of surgical neck of the humerus, which artery may be injured  
Answer: Posterior circumflex humeral  

Q46: In a fracture of the midshaft of the humerus, which artery is most likely to be injured?  
Answer: Profunda brachii  

Q47: Mediastinum contains all the following structures EXCEPT:  
Answer: Lungs  

Q48: Coronary sulcus separates:  
Answer: Atria from the ventricles  

Q49: Coronary sulcus contains:  
Answer: Right coronary artery  

Q50: Which posterior mediastinal structure is most closely applied to the posterior surface of the pericardial sac  
Answer: Esophagus  

Q51: A hand slipped behind the heart at its apex can be extended upwards until stopped by a line of pericardial reflection that forms the:  
Answer: Oblique pericardial sinus  

Q52: Fibrous pericardium is attached to the diaphragm by:  
Answer: Steronodiaphragmatic ligament  

Q53: Fibrous pericardium is attached to the sternum by:  
Answer: Sternopericardial ligament  

Q54: Coronary sinus is located in the:  
Answer: Coronary sulcus on the posterior surface of the heart  

Q55: The right coronary artery supplies all the following parts of the heart EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior portion of interventricular septum  

Q56: "Left main stem vessel" is alternative name of which artery?  
Answer: None of them above  

Q57: In which of the following structure drains the veins of Thabesius?  
Answer: Right ventricle  

Q58: A 54-year-old patient with amyloidosis and subsequent cardiac dysrhythmias undergoes implantation with the artificial cardiac pacemaker. Which of the following conductive tissues of the heart was defective in function that required pacemaker?  
Answer: SA node  

Q59: An 8-year-old boy with an ASD presents to his pediatrician. This congenital heart defect shunts blood from the left atrium to the right atrium and causes hypertrophy of the right atrium, right ventricle and pulmonary trunk. Which of the following veins opens into the hypertrophied atrium?  
Answer: Anterior cardiac vein  

Q60: Arch of Aorta starts after:  
Answer: Aorta enters to superior mediastinum  

Q61: The most common congenital heart defect is:  
Answer: Ventricular septal defect  

Q62: A 19-year-old man was brought to the emergency department after a motor vehicle accident, and his angiogram exhibited that he was bleeding from the vein that is accompanied by the posterior interventricular artery. Which of the following veins is most likely to be ruptured?  
Answer: Middle cardiac vein  

Q63: A 56-year-old patient recently suffered a myocardial infarction on the apex of the heart. The occlusion by atherosclerosis is in which of the following arteries?  
Answer: Anterior interventricular artery  

Q64: Coronary angiogram of a 44-year-old man reveals an occlusion of the circumflex branch of the left coronary artery, which leads to myocardial infarction in which of the following areas?  
Answer: Left atrium and ventricle  

Q65: A 64-year-old man with a history of liver cirrhosis has been examined for the hepatitis A, B and C. in an attempt to obtain a blood sample from the patient's medial cubital vein, nurse misses the vein and gets arterial blood. The blood most likely comes from which of the following arteries?  
Answer: Radial  

Q66: Superficial palmar arch is mainly created by:  
Answer: Ulnar artery  

Q67: In case of open injury of thumb, which of the following artery may be damaged?  
Answer: Princeps pollicis artery  

Q68: Vein will become axillary vein at the lower border of teres major muscle.  
Answer: Basilic  

Q69: Your patient complains of pain on her calf. Upon inspection, you find tortuous, dilated vessels lying subcutaneously on the posterior aspect of her leg. These vessels are most likely:  
Answer: Tributaries to the lesser saphenous vein  

Q70: The pulse of the femoral artery is best felt in which superficial reference point?  
Answer: Femoral triangle  

Q71: The femoral artery enters the popliteal fossa (becoming the popliteal artery) by passing through the:  
Answer: Adductor hiatus  

Q72: During surgical repair of a popliteal artery aneurism, ligation of femoral artery at mid-thigh would not interrupt supply to the hamstring muscles because:  
Answer: Cruciate anastomosis ensures blood supply to the posterior thigh  

Q73: Branch of internal iliac artery that exits through the greater sciatic foramen superior to the piriformis muscle:  
Answer: Superior gluteal  

Q74: A construction worker lacerates the dorsum of his foot just below his ankle. Profuse bleeding that occurs would result from cutting which vessel?  
Answer: Dorsalis pedis artery  

Q75: Arcuate artery is a branch of the:  
Answer: Anterior tibial artery  

Q76: External iliac vein will be created after vein passes beneath inguinal ligament  
Answer: Femoral  

Q77: Which of the following lumbar veins usually drain into the inferior vena cava?  
Answer: 3rd and 4th  

Q78: Which of the following statements about the abdominal aorta is correct?  
Answer: The abdominal aorta is entirely retroperitoneal  

Q79: The left gonadal vein drains into the:  
Answer: Left renal vein  

Q80: From The midclavicular line to the vertebral column the inferior boundary of the visceral pleura can be pproximated by a line that runs between:  
Answer: Rib VI, Rib VIII, TX  

Q81: What is pneumothorax?  
Answer: A condition where air enters the pleural cavity  

Q82: What is the ligament that attaches epiglottis to thyroid cartilage?  
Answer: Thyro-epiglottic  

Q83: Trachea extends approximately between levels of:  
Answer: C6-T4  

Q84: Which of the following is a function of the cartilaginous tracheal rings:  
Answer: Support tracheal wall and prevent air passageway from collapsing  

Q85: The bronchi, that directly conduct air in and out of the lung's bronchopulmonary segments are called:  
Answer: Tertiary bronchi  

Q86: A 31-year-old man was involved in a severe car accident and suffered laceration of the left primary bronchus. The damaged primary bronchus:  
Answer: Is longer than the right primary bronchus  

Q87: The Carina is:  
Answer: The lowest tracheal ring  

Q88: The medial surface of the right lung lies adjacent to a following structures in the mediastinum EXCEPT:  
Answer: Aorta  

Q89: Right bronchial artery arises from:  
Answer: Third posterior intercostal artery  

Q90: The lymph nodes found in the hilum of the lung are the:  
Answer: Bronchopulmonary lymph nodes  

Q91: Which of the following describes characteristics of left lung.  
Answer: Lingula of the lung  

Q92: A 37-year-old patient with chronic intermittent palpitation was examined by her physician, and one of the diagnostic studies included a posterior- anterior chest X-ray. Which of the following comprises the largest portion of the sternocostal surface of the heart seen on the radiograph?  
Answer: Right ventricle  

Q93: A radiologist reviews the chest radiographs a 27-year-old victim of a car accident. Which of the following structures forms the right border of the cardiovascular silhouette?  
Answer: Right atrium  

Q94: A 45-year-old woman presents with a tumor confined to the posterior mediastinum. This could result in compression of which of the following structures?  
Answer: Descending aorta  

Q95: A 5-year-old girl is brought to the emergency department because of difficulty breathing, palpitations and shortness of breath. Dopler study of the heart reveals and atrial septal defect. This malformation usually results from incomplete closure of which of the following embryonic structure?  
Answer: Foramen ovale  

Q96: The continuation of the anterior tibial artery and begins as the anterior tibial artery crosses the ankle joint  
Answer: Dorsalis pedis artery  

Q97: From the third party of axillary artery originates all the branches, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior thoracic artery  

Q98: Identify superficial vein that drains the lateral and posterior parts of the hand, the forearm, and the arm:  
Answer: Cephalic vein  

Q99: At the apex of cubital fossa brachial artery divides into two major branches:  
Answer: Radial and Ulnar artery  

Q100: Which of the following provides the principal blood supply to the lateral side of the little finger, both sides of the ring and middle fingers, and the medial side of the index finger  
Answer: Common palmar digital arteries  

Q101: Which of the following supplies crus and corpus cavernosum of penis:  
Answer: Deep artery of the penis  

Q102: External puidendal arteries originate from:  
Answer: Femoral artery  

Q103: Bladder, ureter and seminal vesicle in men is supplied by:  
Answer: Inferior vesical artery  

Q104: The Pleura is a membrane that surrounds the lungs.  
Answer: Serous  

Q105: The space between the parietal and visceral pleura is called:  
Answer: Plueral cavity  

Q106: Which of the following is true about arytenoid cartilage?  
Answer: Vocal cords are attached to it  

Q107: Which cartilage of the larynx is located inferior to the cricoid cartilage?  
Answer: None of the above  

Q108: The Choanae are:  
Answer: Oval-shaped openings between the nasal cavity and nasopharynx.  

Q109: From The midclavicular line to the vertebral column the inferior boundary of the visceral pleura can be approximated by a line that runs between:  
Answer: Rib VI, Rib VIII, TX  

Q110: At the apex of cubital fossa brachial artery divides into two major branches:  
Answer: Radial and ulnar artery  

Q111: Which of the following is correct about thoracic duct  
Answer: Thoracic duct drains lymph to the junction of left subclavian and left internal jugular vein  

Q112: Which of the following is CORRECT?  
Answer: The thoracic duct extends from vertebra LII to the root of the neck  

Q113: Which of the following is CORRECT?  
Answer: Right and left gastric veins draining the lesser curvature of the stomach and abdominal esophagus  

Q114: Middle colic, right colic and ileocolic arteries are the branches of:  
Answer: Superior mesenteric artery  

Q115: Mostly, descending colons is supplied by:  
Answer: Left colic artery  

Q116: In most cases, Inferior mesenteric vein drains blood to:  
Answer: Splenic vein  

Q117: All of the cartilages are part of larynx, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Nasal septal cartilage  

Q118: The Cricoid cartilage has two article facets on each side, one for thyroid cartilage and one for:  
Answer: Arytenoid cartilage  

Q119: Which of the following cartilage has muscular process and vocal process  
Answer: Arytenoid  

Q120: All are true about larynx, EXCEPT  
Answer: The angle between the two laminae (Thyroid angle) is more acute in women - 90 degree  

Q121: During quiet respiration, in midaxillary line, inferior margin of the lung crosses rib:  
Answer: VIII  

Q122: Horizontal fissure seperates:  
Answer: Middle lobe from superior lobe  

Q123: How many lobar bronchus have right lung?  
Answer: 3  

Q124: Which of the following is true?  
Answer: Right main bronchus is wider and has more vertical courser than left  

Q125: All of the following are the parts of hilum, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior Vena Cava  

Q126: External iliac artery becomes artery as the vessel passes under the inguinal ligament  
Answer: Femoral  

Q127: Has lateral and medial circumflex femoral branches and three perforating branches  
Answer: Deep artery of the thigh  

Q128: From the Originates anterior and posterior tibial arteries  
Answer: Popliteal artery  

Q129: A 47-year-old man with a known history of chronic atrial fibrillation returns to see his cardiologist for follow-up of his cardiac health. The right atrium is important in this case because it:  
Answer: Contains the SA node  

Q130: The Superior mediastinum:  
Answer: Left recurrent laryngeal nerve  

Q131: The superior mediastinum contains all of the following EXCEPT:  
Answer: The coronary arteries  

Q132: Which statement is incorrect regarding left brachiocephalic vein?  
Answer: Receives the accessory hemiazygos vein  

Q133: The ligamentum arteriosum:  
Answer: Is one of the fixed point of attachment of the aorta  

Q134: Lymph from the kidney will drain into the:  
Answer: Para-aortic nodes  

Q135: The abdominal aorta gives off paired lumbar arteries that supply the spinal cord. How many pairs of lumbar arteries typically arise from the abdominal aorta?  
Answer: 4  

Q136: All of the following structures can be found on the level of transpyloric plane, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Gonadal arteries  

Q137: At what vertebral level does the abdominal aorta originate from the thoracic aorta?  
Answer: T12  

Q138: Which of the following artery is runs on the anterior surface of the psoas major muscle?  
Answer: Gonadal Arteries  

Q139: Abdominal aortic stent grafts are commonly used in the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms. What is the primary purpose of a stent graft in this context?  
Answer: To provide structural support to the aorta  

Q140: Retroperitoneal lymph node dissection (RPLND) is a surgical procedure commonly used in the treatment of testicular cancer. Which group of lymph nodes is often the primary focus of RPLND in this context?  
Answer: Pre-aortic lymph nodes  

Q141: Which of the following is true about mediastinum  
Answer: Middle mediastinum consists heart with pericardium  

Q142: The base of the heart consists all of the structures, EXCEPT  
Answer: Right pulmonary Surface  

Q143: Mitral (bicuspid) valve is located  
Answer: Between left atrium and left ventricle  

Q144: All are correct about heart surfaces, EXCEPT  
Answer: Right pulmonary surface mainly consists of the right ventricle  

Q145: In most cases, diaphragmatic surface of the heart is supplied by  
Answer: Posterior interventricular artery  

Q146: Sinu-atrial node is located  
Answer: At the superior end of the crista terminalis at the junction of the superior vena cava and the right atrium  

Q147: All of the following are branches of right coronary artery, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Diagonal branches  

Q148: Which of the following is CORRECT?  
Answer: The posterior cardiac vein lies on the posterior surface of the left ventricle just to the left of the middle cardiac vein  

Q149: Brachiocephalic vein is formed by junction of:  
Answer: Subclavian vein and internal jugular vein  

Q150: All of the following is correct, EXCEPT:  
Answer: The right brachiocephalic vein crosses the midline and joins with the left brachiocephalic vein  

Q151: Aortic valve is heard at:  
Answer: 2nd intercostal space  

Q152: Which of the following is correct about T4/T5 level  
Answer: All of the above  

Q153: How can we distinguish pericarditis from myocardial infarction  
Answer: Pain during pericarditis relieves when leaned forward  

Q154: Anterior interventricular artery is located in the:  
Answer: Anterior interventricular sulcus  

Q155: All of the following structures are seen in the superior mediastinum EXCEPT:  
Answer: Right recurrent laryngeal nerve  

Q156: What is the name of condition when aortic intima is split from media?  
Answer: Aortic dissection  

Q157: Lesser splanchnic nerve ends in the:  
Answer: Aorticorenal ganglion  

Q158: Murmurs of mitral valve best heard by stethoscope on the:  
Answer: None of them above  

Q159: In the middle region of the thorax the thoracic duct lies immediately posterior to the:  
Answer: Esophagus  

Q160: While viewing an exploratory surgery on a patient injured in an automobile accident, you see the surgeon elevate the esophagus off the vertebral bodies and look in the area between the azygos vein and descending aorta. What structure was he most likely looking for?  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q161: Cisterna chyli is a:  
Answer: Confluence of lymph trunks in the abdomen  

Q162: Which of the following is a branch of the third posterior intercostal artery?  
Answer: Right bronchial artery  

Q163: All the following structures can be seen between crura of the diaphragm EXCEPT:  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q164: In the posterior mediastinum:  
Answer: Anterior to the body of thoracic vertebrae and posterior to the pericardial sac  

Q165: Which of the following statement is NOT correct regarding Thymus?  
Answer: Thymus has a symmetrical, bilobed structure  

Q166: Subcostal artery is a branch of the:  
Answer: Thoracic Aorta  

Q167: Azygos vein creates by junction of:  
Answer: None of them above  

Q168: A twenty-year-old woman was broad-sided on the driver side by an SUV and was taken to the hospital emergency room. Examination showed low blood pressure and tenderness on the left mid-axillary line. Also, a large swelling was felt protruding downward and medially below the left costal margin. X-rays revealed that her 9th and 10th ribs were fractured near their angles on the left side. The abdominal organ most likely to be injured by the fracture is:  
Answer: Spleen  

Q169: The fundus of the stomach receives its arterial supply from the:  
Answer: Splenic Artery  

Q170: While performing emergency surgery to control hemorrhage brought on by arterial erosion caused by a duodenal ulcer, surgeons ligated the badly damaged gastroduodenal artery near its origin, which affected all of its branches as well. Assuming "average anatomy", in which of the following arteries would blood now flow in retrograde fashion (backwards) from collateral sources?  
Answer: Right gastro-omental  

Q171: The inferior mesenteric vein usually joins which vein?  
Answer: Splenic vein  

Q172: Occlusion of the inferior mesenteric artery is seldom symptomatic because its territory may be supplied by branches of the:  
Answer: Middle colic  

Q173: The anastomotic artery running along the border of the large intestine is called the:  
Answer: Marginal Artery  

Q174: Right gastro-omental vein will drain to the:  
Answer: Superior mesenteric  

Q175: A 21-year-old man suffers a penetrating knife wound in the abdomen which severs both the superior mesenteric artery and the vagus nerve. Which portion of the colon would most likely be impaired by this injury?  
Answer: Ascending and transverse colons  

Q176: A 67-year-old woman with long history of liver cirrhosis was seen in the emergency department. In this patient with portal hypertension, which of the following veins is most likely dilated?  
Answer: Right colic vein  

Q177: A 57-year-old patient has a tumor in the body of the pancreas that obstructs the inferior mesenteric vein just before joining the splenic vein. Which of the following veins is most likely enlarged?  
Answer: Left colic vein  

Q178: A 19-year-old man with a ruptured appendix is sent to the emergency department for surgery. To cut off the blood supply to appendix, a surgeon should ligate which of the following arteries?  
Answer: Ileocolic colic Artery  

Q179: A 43-year-old woman is admitted to the hospital because of deep abdominal pain in her epigastric region. On examination, it is observed that a retroperitoneal infection erodes an artery that runs along the superior border of the pancreas. Which of the following artery is likely injured?  
Answer: Splenic artery  

Q180: From the brachiocephalic trunk originates:  
Answer: Right subclavian artery  

Q181: Circumflex scapular artery leaves the axilla through:  
Answer: Triangular space  

Q182: Superior vena cava may receive all of the following, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Internal thoracic vein  

Q183: The great cardiac vein lies in the  
Answer: The anterior interventricular sulcus  

Q184: A newborn baby is admitted to the hospital with hypoxia. Upon testing is found to have pulmonary stenosis, dextroposition of the aorta, interventricular septal defect, and the hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Which of the following is best described by these symptoms?  
Answer: Tetralogy of Fallot  

Q185: The inferior vena cava is formed when the two common iliac veins come together at the level of vertebra  
Answer: Lv  

Q186: The Inferior phrenic artery supplies:  
Answer: Suprarenal gland and inferior surface of the diaphragm  

Q187: The trachea bifurcates at level  
Answer: TIV/V  

Q188: The inferior rectal arteries originate from the  
Answer: Internal pudenal artery  

Q189: The pudendal nerve and internal pudendal vessels passes through the  
Answer: The greater sciatic foramen below the piriformis muscle, lesser sciatic foramen  

Q190: The final posterior branch of abdominal aorta:  
Answer: Median sacral artery  

Q191: Mitral valve is between  
Answer: Left atrium and left ventricle  

Q192: The thoracic duct extends from vertebra to the root of the neck  
Answer: LII  

Q193: Which valve is bicuspid  
Answer: Mitral  

Q194: The hindgut is supplied by the:  
Answer: Inferior mesenteric artery  

Q195: Pulmonary valve is between  
Answer: Right ventricle and pulmonary trunk  

Q196: The posterior branches of the abdominal aorta are vessels supplying the  
Answer: Diaphragm or body wall  

Q197: The third and fourth lumbar veins usually drain into  
Answer: Inferior vena cava  

Q198: The lesser splanchnic nerve end in the  
Answer: Aorticorenal ganglion  

Q199: The least splanchnic nerve (lowest splanchnic nerve) end in the  
Answer: Renal plexus  

Q200: The anterior mediastinum is  
Answer: Posterior to the body of the sternum and anterior to the pericardial sac  

Q201: In most cases sinu-atrial and atrioventricular nodes are supplied by the  
Answer: Right coronar artery  

Q202: The allows oxygenated blood entering the right atrium through the inferior vena cava to pass directly to the left atrium  
Answer: Foramen ovale  

Q203: Tricuspid valve (right atrioventricular valve) has 3 cusps:  
Answer: Anterior, septal, and posterior cusps  

Q204: The cusps of the pulmonary valve are named the  
Answer: Left, right, and anterior cusps  

Q205: Posterior to the neck of the pancreas, the superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic vein to form the  
Answer: Portal vein  

Q206: The vasa recta supplying the jejunum are usually  
Answer: Long and close together  

Q207: The vasa recta supplying the ileum are  
Answer: Short and far apart  

Q208: Appendicular artery is branch of  
Answer: Ileocolic artery  

Q209: Left colic artery is branch of  
Answer: Inferior mesenteric artery  

Q210: Superior rectal artery is branch of  
Answer: Inferior mesenteric artery  

Q211: The right gastro-omental artery is branch of  
Answer: Gastroduodenal artery  

Q212: The facial artery is superficial to the:  
Answer: Buccinator and levator anguli oris  

Q213: The supratrochlear and supra-orbital veins come together to form the  
Answer: Angular vein  

Q214: Facial artery terminates as a  
Answer: Angular Artery  

Q215: The nasopalatine nerve pass from the nasal cavity into the oral cavity thgough the  
Answer: Incisive canal  

Q216: The lateral nasal artery originates from the  
Answer: Facial artery  

Q217: The telencephalon (cerebrum) becomes.  
Answer: Large cerebral hemispheres  

Q218: The diencephalon consists of  
Answer: Thalamus, hypothalamus, and other related structures  

Q219: The is a thin, avascular membrane that lines, but is not adherent to, the inner surface of the dura mater  
Answer: Arachnoid mater  

Q220: Cerebrospinal fluid is produced by the  
Answer: Choroid plexus  

Q221: The middle meningeal artery is a branch of the  
Answer: Maxillary Artery  

Q222: Epicardium is the  
Answer: Visceral layer of serous pericardium  

Q223: The narrow space created between the two layers of serous pericardium is  
Answer: Pericardial cavity  