
### Human Physiology Questions

**True/False Questions**  
Q1: The highest pressure in veins is in the leg.  
Answer: True  

Q2: Severe hyperventilation (low CO2) can lead to loss of consciousness.  
Answer: True  

Q3: Collateral flow can damage the myocardium.  
Answer: False  

Q4: Isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) is the interval from aortic valve closure to mitral valve opening.  
Answer: True  

Q5: Atrial contraction corresponds to 70-80% of total ventricular filling.  
Answer: False  

Q6: The residual volume is the volume of air remaining in the lungs after the most forceful expiration.  
Answer: True  

Q7: The small diameter airways are the main sites of airways resistance.  
Answer: False  

Q8: The lungs are fully emptied and filled with each breath.  
Answer: False  

Q9: PO2 in the pulmonary vein and the left atrium is equal.  
Answer: False  

Q10: The central chemoreceptors sense the oxygen tension of the arterial blood.  
Answer: False  

Q11: The smaller the alveolus, the greater the alveolar pressure caused by the surface tension.  
Answer: True  

Q12: Cardiac pain can be irradiated to the back, right arm, jaw.  
Answer: True  

Q13: During heart failure, the main reason for edema is decreased capillary hydrostatic pressure.  
Answer: False  

Q14: The second heart sound is heard at the beginning of ventricular relaxation.  
Answer: True  

Q15: The anatomical dead space is independent of the tidal volume.  
Answer: False  

Q16: The ischemic effect on vasomotor activity can greatly elevate the mean arterial pressure.  
Answer: True  

Q17: Cardiac conductivity occurs through modified cardiac muscle fibers.  
Answer: True  

Q18: Cardiac muscle uses aerobic and anaerobic sources of energy.  
Answer: False  

Q19: Abnormally decreased cardiac output can result from acute venous dilation.  
Answer: True  

Q20: Diastole is shortened when HR is increased.  
Answer: True  

Q21: V5, V6 on the ECG represents the anterior wall of the heart.  
Answer: False  

Q22: Arteries are more compliant compared to veins.  
Answer: False  

Q23: Angiotensin II decreases blood flow through the kidneys.  
Answer: False  

Q24: The left side of the interventricular septum is depolarized before the right side.  
Answer: True  

Q25: A-V valves close when the ventricular pressure exceeds atrial pressure.  
Answer: True  

Q26: Which phase of diastole is the most effective to direct much more blood from the atrium to the ventricle?  
Answer: Rapid filling phase  

Q27: Longer P-Q interval on ECG suggests damage to the AV node.  
Answer: True  

Q28: Increased K permeability in the SA node will cause a decrease in heart rate.  
Answer: True  

Q29: In man, the peripheral chemoreceptors are located in the carotid sinus and aortic arch.  
Answer: True  

Q30: The physiological dead space is always greater than the anatomical dead space.  
Answer: False  

Q31: The ______ equals the inspiratory reserve volume plus the tidal volume plus the expiratory reserve volume.  
Answer: Vital capacity  

Q32: All these definitions are right for preload, EXCEPT.  
Answer: Preload is right atrial pressure  

Q33: If venous return is increased, more blood goes to the heart and the greater the heart muscle is stretched during filling, the greater is the force of contraction and the greater the quantity of blood pumped into the aorta. This principle is called.  
Answer: Frank-Starling law  

Q34: An increase in blood volume will cause.  
Answer: All of the above  

Q35: The distribution of blood among the various organs of the body is regulated by the resistance of the.  
Answer: Arterioles  

Q36: Coronary blood flow mostly occurs during.  
Answer: Diastole  

Q37: If alveolar gas has the same composition as humidified inspired air: PAO2 is 150 mm Hg and PACO2 is 0 and PaCO2 and PaO2 is decreased, V/Q equation will.  
Answer: Infinity  

Q38: Diffusion coefficient is highest for.  
Answer: CO2  

Q39: Carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning is associated with.  
Answer: Decreased O2 content, normal PO2, decreased saturation  

Q40: Non-respiratory role of the respiratory system is.  
Answer: All of them  

Q41: Surfactant.  
Answer: Reduces surface tension of the fluid lining the alveoli  

Q42: What percentage of the carbon dioxide produced is transported via hemoglobin?  
Answer: 20-25%  

Q43: Elastic recoil of the lungs.  
Answer: Prevents the lungs from collapsing  

Q44: Which of the following belongs to cellular respiration?  
Answer: Oxidative phosphorylation  

Q45: Surfactant deficiency is NOT likely to produce.  
Answer: Increased compliance of the lungs  

Q46: Normal V/Q equation is.  
Answer: 0.8-1  

Q47: The highest resistance is in the.  
Answer: Medium-sized bronchi  

Q48: The vagus nerves penetrate the lung parenchyma and secrete acetylcholine, causing mild to moderate constriction of the.  
Answer: Bronchioles  

Q49: When carbon dioxide is increased in the blood, it.  
Answer: Causes oxygen to bind more to hemoglobin  

Q50: Regarding the pulmonary circulation.  
Answer: The resistance of the pulmonary circulation is lower than systemic circulation  

Q51: At which of the following sites does the blood flow lose the greatest amount of energy?  
Answer: Arterioles  

Q52: The remaining volume in each ventricle after systole, about 40 to 50 milliliters, is called the.  
Answer: End-systolic volume  

Q53: Nitric oxide.  
Answer: Has mainly a local action  

Q54: The growth of new blood vessels can be inhibited by.  
Answer: All of the above  

Q55: V/Q equation is more than 1 in.  
Answer: Upper part of the lung  

Q56: Conductive system of the heart has the capacity of creating heart rate, but not the same degree. What will be the sequence of pacemakers (from high activity to low)?  
Answer: SA node, AV node, Bundle of His, Purkinje fibers  

Q57: In the cardiac conductive system, phase 1 is created by.  
Answer: Sodium funny channels  

Q58: Calcium source for the cardiac muscle mostly is.  
Answer: Extracellular space  

Q59: Cardiac weakness can be caused by deficiency of ______ in the extracellular fluid.  
Answer: Calcium  

Q60: PQ (PR) interval on ECG represents.  
Answer: AV nodal conduction  

Q61: Which of the following would decrease mean arterial blood pressure?  
Answer: Dilation of the arterioles  

Q62: Peripheral resistance.  
Answer: Increases as blood viscosity increases  

Q63: Vascular remodeling may occur in response to a chronic increase in blood ______ or blood ______.  
Answer: Pressure or volume  

Q64: Increasing vagal stimulation of the heart will cause an increase in.  
Answer: Parasympathetic activity (which decreases heart rate)  

Q65: Which of the following is NOT true about baroreceptors?  
Answer: Effect of their activation is increased heart rate  

Q66: Which of the following is NOT true?  
Answer: Renin-angiotensin vasoconstrictor system is faster to act for blood pressure control than the nervous reflexes  

Q67: Which of the following is NOT true about angiotensin II?  
Answer: Decreases total  

Q68: All are involved in ventricular filling except.  
Answer: Maximum ejection phase  

Q69: If total is decreased (for example after arteriolar dilatation).  
Answer: Venous return and CO (cardiac output) both are increased  

Q70: In aortic stenosis, you can hear.  
Answer: Systolic murmur which radiates to the carotid arteries  

Q71: The first heart sound "lub" is associated with closure of which valves at the beginning of systole?  
Answer: AV valves  

Q72: Listening to the sounds of the body, usually with the aid of a stethoscope, is called ______.  
Answer: Auscultation  

Q73: Some of the air a person breathes never reaches the gas exchange areas but simply fills respiratory passages where gas exchange does not occur, such as the nose, pharynx, trachea, and bronchi. These spaces are called ______.  
Answer: Dead spaces  

Q74: The highest partial pressure of alveolar oxygen is in.  
Answer: Upper part of the lung  

Q75: Partial pressure of O2 is lower in the trachea compared to the atmosphere because of.  
Answer: Inhaled air is humidified  

Q76: Most amount (70%) of CO2 is removed from the tissue as ______.  
Answer: Bicarbonate  

Q77: During isovolumetric relaxation time.  
Answer: All valves are closed  

Q78: If a patient has edema of both legs, the reason can be.  
Answer: Right heart failure, liver failure, nephrotic syndrome  

Q79: The greatest percentage of blood volume is found in the.  
Answer: Veins  

Q80: Which of the following is decreased after compensation for the hemorrhage by the baroreceptor reflex?  
Answer: Venous compliance  

Q81: All these factors can increase preload, EXCEPT.  
Answer: Decreased venous return  

Q82: During heavy exercise.  
Answer: Total peripheral resistance is decreased and inotropy is increased  

Q83: Vasodilation in the heart and skeletal muscles during exercise is primarily due to the effects of.  
Answer: Beta-2 adrenergic receptors  

Q84: The most permeable substance in the capillary membrane is.  
Answer: Water  

Q85: Pulse pressure is higher in the.  
Answer: Large arteries  

Q86: The "a" wave on the atrial pressure curve is caused by.  
Answer: Atrial contraction  

Q87: Ventricular pressure is higher than the atrial pressure in all phases of the cardiac cycle except in.  
Answer: Rapid ventricular filling phase  

Q88: Systolic pressure in the right ventricle is.  
Answer: 25 mmHg  

Q89: Lymph capillaries differ from systemic blood capillaries in that they.  
Answer: Are absent in the CNS  

Q90: Edema may be caused by.  
Answer: All of the above  

Q91: Flow of fluid through the lymphatic vessels will be decreased if there is an increase in.  
Answer: Capillary oncotic pressure  

Q92: The greatest percentage of blood volume is found in the.  
Answer: Veins  

Q93: Which of the following statements is correct?  
Answer: Veins contain valves and arteries do not  

---