Q1: Intraembryonic cavity is derived from lateral mesoderm.  
Answer: 1  

Q2: Ossification of the fetal skeleton is most active during 13 to 16 weeks.  
Answer: 1  

Q3: Central nervous system is derived from the surface ectoderm.  
Answer: 0  

Q4: The central tendon of the diaphragm is formed by septum transversum.  
Answer: 1  

Q5: Blood from the intervillous lakes drains back into the maternal circulation through the endometrial veins.  
Answer: 1  

Q6: The umbilical cord has one artery and two veins.  
Answer: 0  

Q7: Capillaries of pulmonary alveoli are larger in diameter than average systemic capillaries.  
Answer: 1  

Q8: Ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium is found in bronchioles.  
Answer: 0  

Q9: The principal cells of parathyroid glands have round central nuclei and pale-staining cytoplasm.  
Answer: 1  

Q10: The epicardium is a simple columnar mesothelium supported by a layer of loose connective tissue.  
Answer: 0  

Q11: Capillary beds are supplied by one or more terminal arteriole branches called metarterioles.  
Answer: 1  

Q12: The internal surface of all components of the cardiovascular system is lined by a simple squamous epithelium.  
Answer: 1  

Q13: Meiosis II of female germ cells is completed only if the oocyte is fertilized.  
Answer: 1  

Q14: Outer cell masses of blastocyst differentiate into epiblast and hypoblast.  
Answer: 0  

Q15: With increasing age many secretory cells of parathyroid gland are replaced with adipocytes.  
Answer: 1  

Q16: The hypoparathyroidism can cause bones to become less mineralized and striated muscle to exhibit abnormal contractions.  
Answer: 0  

Q17: Surfactant counteracts surface tension of the terminal sacs by preventing alveolar collapse.  
Answer: 1  

Q18: Before birth, the primordial alveoli appear as small bulges on the walls of terminal bronchoiles.  
Answer: 0  

Q19: Lung development is divided into three stages: the Pseudoglandular stage, canalicular and alveolar stages.  
Answer: 0  

Q20: Early in the fifth week of human development, the connection of each bronchial bud with the trachea enlarges to form the primordia of the main bronchi.  
Answer: 1  

Q21: The olfactory epithelium covers the roof of the nasal cavity.  
Answer: 1  

Q22: The truncus ridges may fail to spiral resulting in transposition of the great vessels.  
Answer: 1  

Q23: In the normal fetal circulation, blood from the placenta bypasses the sinusoidal plexus of the liver by way of the ductus venosus.  
Answer: 1  

Q24: Abnormal origin of the right subclavian artery results from abnormal obliteration of the right 7th intersegmental artery.  
Answer: 0  

Q25: The cardiovascular system begins to develop during the third week.  
Answer: 1  

Q26: The primitive heart is partitioned into four separate chambers during the fourth week.  
Answer: 0  

Q27: The Fetal and maternal blood vessels anastomose in the placenta.  
Answer: 0  

Q28: During the neonatal period closes the ductus venosus.  
Answer: 1  

Q29: Muscular Arteries are called "conducting arteries".  
Answer: 0  

Q30: Perycites are find in the wall of all blood vessels.  
Answer: 0  

Q31: Intraembryionic cavity is derived from lateral mesoderm.  
Answer: 1  

Q32: The body cavity finally will be subdivided into the one pleural, two pericardial and one peritoneal (abdominal) cavity.  
Answer: 0  

Q33: Air moving across the vocal cords and causing them produce sound is contacting Stratified squamous keratinized epithelium.  
Answer: 0  

Q34: The pulmonary surfactant prevents alveolar collapse by increasing surface tension.  
Answer: 0  

Q35: The visceral pleura that covers each lung is a layer of thin connective tissue and mesothelium.  
Answer: 1  

Q36: Epithelial lining of the larynx develops from the endoderm of the laryngotracheal tube.  
Answer: 1  

Q37: The principal cells of the parathyroid glands are small polygonal cells with round nuclei and slightly acidophilic cytoplasm.  
Answer: 1  

Q38: PTH decreases the activity of osteoclasts.  
Answer: 0  

Q39: Dorsal mesentery suspends the gut tube from the posterior body wall into the peritoneal cavity.  
Answer: 1  

Q40: Embryonic red blood cells only differ from adult cells in still having nuclei.  
Answer: 0  

Q41: Initially, the lung bud is in open communication with the foregut.  
Answer: 1  

Q42: Trachea and esophagus are derived from the foregut via lung buds.  
Answer: 0  

Q43: Splanchnic mesoderm covers the outside of the lung, develops into the visceral pleura.  
Answer: 1  

Q44: Alveoli are surrounded by smooth muscle layer.  
Answer: 0  

Q45: Lymphocytes are FORMED in secondary lymphoid organs.  
Answer: 0  

Q46: High serum T3 has negative feedback on TSH release by anterior pituitary.  
Answer: 1  

Q47: Cytokines can be produced by cells beside immune cells.  
Answer: 1  

Q48: Graafian follicle is formed.  
Answer: Before ovulation  

Q49: Crossovers are critical events.  
Answer: [Too long – skipped]  

Q50: How many mature gametes has male from one primary spermatocyte after meiosis II.  
Answer: Four mature spermatozoa  

Q51: Maturation of the sperm begins.  
Answer: At puberty  

Q52: Gonadotrophin releasing hormone is produced by.  
Answer: Hypothalamus  

Q53: Ovulation is induced by.  
Answer: LH peak  

Q54: Which ovarian hormone regulates secretory phase?  
Answer: Progesterone  

Q55: Which of the following cavities is not formed during second week of embryonal development?  
Answer: Intraembryonic cavity  

Q56: Lacunae appear within.  
Answer: Syncytiotrophoblast  

Q57: Intraembryonic cavity appears in.  
Answer: Intermediate mesoderm  

Q58: Heart begins to beat on.  
Answer: 21st day  

Q59: Which of the following processes is the beginning of morphogenesis?  
Answer: Gastrulation  

Q60: Which is the thickest layer for the veins?  
Answer: Tunica adventitia  

Q61: Both ciliated epithelial cells and goblet cells are presented in all of the following except.  
Answer: Alveoli  

Q62: What type of tissue makes up the epiglottis?  
Answer: Elastic cartilage  

Q63: Which cells are located at the basal lamina of the olfactory mucosa?  
Answer: Basal cells  

Q64: Alveolar macrophages are also called.  
Answer: Dust cells  

Q65: An olfactory cells us.  
Answer: None of the above  

Q66: After meiosis II four daughter cells are formed. They contain.  
Answer: Haploid number of nonduplicated chromosomes  

Q67: The placenta formed by.  
Answer: the chorion frondosum together with the decidua basalis  

Q68: Peristaltic contractions of uterine smooth muscle causes by.  
Answer: Oxitocyn  

Q69: The maternal component of the placenta is derived from.  
Answer: the uterine endometrium  

Q70: The oxygen rich blood comes from maternal body into the intervillous spaces by the.  
Answer: Spiral arteries  

Q71: This hormone is excreted by the mother in the urine and is used as an indicator of pregnancy.  
Answer: human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)  

Q72: The large numbers of alveolar macrophages that migrate into lumens of alveoli are derived from.  
Answer: Monocyte in circulating blood  

Q73: Which type of fiber helps the trachea to adapt its shape during inspiration and expiration.  
Answer: Elastin fibers  

Q74: Tertiary bronchi are characterized by.  
Answer: Broken plates of hyaline cartilage  

Q75: Which cartilage of the larynx is made of hyaline cartilage.  
Answer: a and b  

Q76: Which of following cells are found in large numbers in the terminal bronchioles?  
Answer: Clara cells  

Q77: Which cells are found in large numbers in the terminal bronchioles.  
Answer: Clara cells  

Q78: Which ovarian hormone regulates secretory phase.  
Answer: Progesterone  

Q79: Lacunnae appear within.  
Answer: Syncytiotrophoblast  

Q80: Heart begins to beat on.  
Answer: 21st day  

Q81: Somites are derived from.  
Answer: Paraxial mesoderm  

Q82: Development of nervous system begins.  
Answer: During 3th week  

Q83: Cloaca is formed from the terminal part of.  
Answer: Hindgut  

Q84: Kidneys are derived form.  
Answer: Intermediate mesoderm  

Q85: Parietal layer of serous membranes lining the outside of the.  
Answer: Peritoneal, pleural, pericardial cavities  

Q86: Which of the following is not mesoderm derivative.  
Answer: Retina  

Q87: Laryngeal muscles originate from myoblasts in.  
Answer: Both B and C  

Q88: When segmental bronchi starts formation?  
Answer: By the seventh week  

Q89: Name the stages of lung maturation in the correct order of weeks.  
Answer: Canalicular stage -- 16 to 25 weeks  

Q90: At birth, the following changes in circulation take place, EXCEPT.  
Answer: Relaxation of the thoracic diaphragm  

Q91: Each of the following statements are correctly paired EXCEPT.  
Answer: Right umbilical vein -- definitive umbilical vein  

Q92: The changes that normally occur shortly after birth include.  
Answer: The umbilical arteries become medial umbilical ligaments  

Q93: What does the fourth aortic arch develop into on the left and right side of the body?  
Answer: Left = arch of the aorta, right = right subclavian artery  

Q94: What does the ductus venosus become once it has closed?  
Answer: Ligamentum venosus  

Q95: What is the name of the hole formed when the septum secundum grows downwards during the separation of the atria?  
Answer: Foramen ovale  

Q96: The specialized group of mesenchymal cells which aggregate to form blood islands are called.  
Answer: Angioblasts  

Q97: What is the name of the shunt that exists between the aorta and the pulmonary artery in fetal circulation?  
Answer: Ductus arteriosus  

Q98: Which two parts of the primitive heart tube form the outflow tract?  
Answer: Bulbus cordis and truncus arteriosus  

Q99: The fetal left atrium is mainly derived from the.  
Answer: Primordial pulmonary vein  

Q100: What leads to the closure of the foramen ovale?  
Answer: Pressure in the left atrium exceeding that in the right atrium  

Q101: How would you best describe the folding that brings the primitive heart tube into the thoracic region of the embryo?  
Answer: Cephalo-caudal folding  

Q102: Pulmonary surfactant most likely begins to form in the fetus at about.  
Answer: 20 to 22 weeks  

Q103: The cranial portion of the foregut is divided by tracheoesophageal septum into.  
Answer: All of the above  

Q104: The connective tissue of the trachea is derived from.  
Answer: Splanchnic mesenchyme  

Q105: The respiratory bud originates form.  
Answer: Laryngotracheal diverticulum  

Q106: The heart is derived from.  
Answer: Splanchnic mesoderm  

Q107: The embryonic origin of the ligamentum arteriosum is from the.  
Answer: Sixth arch artery  

Q108: The lining of lymphatic vessels is composed of which of the following cell type?  
Answer: Stratified squamous epithelium  

Q109: Which of the following would be least likely to be found in lymph fluid?  
Answer: Red blood cells  

Q110: Which of the following is true for pericytes.  
Answer: Are associated with capillary endothelial cells  

Q111: Which description is true for discontinues capillaries.  
Answer: Sinusoidal capillaries are found in the spleen  

Q112: Which of the following is the function of endothelium.  
Answer: All of the above  

Q113: Which of the following is true for atria.  
Answer: Receive blood directly from veins  

Q114: Which is the most abundant plasma protein?  
Answer: Albumin  

Q115: Which is most immature recognizable cell in myeloid series?  
Answer: Myeloblast  

Q116: Which small vessels supply blood to the tissues of the vessel?  
Answer: Vasa vasorum  

Q117: What is the thickest layer of wall of the arteries?  
Answer: Tunica media  

Q118: What is main function of carotid sinus?  
Answer: Receptor of the oxygen partial pressure of oxygen  

Q119: Name of the connective tissues deeper layer which starts in endocardium and continuous with myocardium.  
Answer: subendocardial layer  

Q120: Which structure contains pores?  
Answer: Sinusoidal capillaries  

Q121: Which cell secretes surfactant?  
Answer: Type II pneumocyte  

Q122: The mesenchymal cells which aggregate to form blood islands are called.  
Answer: angioblasts  

Q123: The remnant of the first aortic arch artery is.  
Answer: maxillary artery  

Q124: The aortic sac.  
Answer: is connected to the dorsal aorta via the aortic arch arteries  

Q125: The epithelium of the internal lining of the larynx, trachea, bronchi and alveoli is entirely.  
Answer: endodermal  

Q126: The region of the atrioventricular canal develops into.  
Answer: the mitral and tricuspid valves  

Q127: The lung buds grow into the coelomic cavity in the region.  
Answer: pericardio-peritoneal canals  

Q128: The lung bud mesenchyme gives rise to the.  
Answer: smooth muscles  

Q129: Which one of the following hormones lowers blood calcium levels by inhibiting bone resorption?  
Answer: Calcitonin  

Q130: An olfactory cells is.  
Answer: None of the above  