Q1: Which of the following valves are opened during ventricular systole to allow blood to enter the systemic circulation?  
Answer: Aortic  

Q2: What is the primary function of the heart?  
Answer: To pump blood throughout the body  

Q3: Which chamber of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs?  
Answer: Left atrium  

Q4: The atrioventricular valves cannot be inverted because attachment of \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Answer: Chordae tendineae  

Q5: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ of the heart prevents overdilation of the valve openings  
Answer: Fibrous skeleton  

Q6: Name the four specific abnormalities generally associated with anatomic defects in tetralogy of Fallot  
Answer: Pulmonary stenosis, ventricular septal defect, overriding aorta, right ventricular hypertrophy  

Q7: Trachea extends approximately between levels of:  
Answer: CVI — TIV  

Q8: Which of the following is a function of the cartilaginous tracheal rings:  
Answer: Support tracheal wall and prevent air passageway from collapsing  

Q9: The bronchi, that directly conduct air in and out of the lung's bronchopulmonary segments are called:  
Answer: Tertiary bronchi  

Q10: Tricuspid valve (right atrioventricular valve) has 3 cusps:  
Answer: Anterior, septal, and posterior cusps  

Q11: The cusps of the pulmonary valve are named the  
Answer: Left, right, and anterior cusps  

Q12: Epicardium is the  
Answer: Visceral layer of serous pericardium  

Q13: The descending thoracic aorta runs posterior to which structure?  
Answer: Esophagus  

Q14: The thoracic aorta terminates by passing through the diaphragm at which vertebral level?  
Answer: T12  

Q15: The anterior intercostal branches of the thoracic aorta primarily supply which spaces?  
Answer: Intercostal spaces  

Q16: Which of the following veins does not flow into the portal vein of the liver?  
Answer: Inferior vena cava  

Q17: The superior rectal vein drains into the:  
Answer: Inferior mesenteric vein  

Q18: The inferior mesenteric artery supplies abdominal organs that arise from which embryonic precursor?  
Answer: Hindgut  

Q19: In the middle region of the thorax the thoracic duct lies immediately posterior to the:  
Answer: Esophagus  

Q20: While viewing an exploratory surgery on a patient injured in an automobile accident, you see the surgeon elevate the esophagus off the vertebral bodies and look in the area between the azygos vein and descending aorta. What structure was he most likely looking for?  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q21: In the posterior mediastinum:  
Answer: The thoracic duct lies anterior to the vertebral column  

Q22: The right subclavian artery arises directly from the aorta.  
Answer: 0  

Q23: The axillary artery terminates by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries.  
Answer: 0  

Q24: The brachial artery typically bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries at the level of the elbow.  
Answer: 1  

Q25: The basilic vein is considered a deep vein of the upper limb.  
Answer: 0  

Q26: The internal pudendal artery is a branch of the internal iliac artery and supplies the perineum.  
Answer: 1  

Q27: The obturator artery is a parietal branch of the internal iliac artery that supplies the gluteal region.  
Answer: 0  

Q28: All the hand arteries originate from two main, larger ones; the radial and ulnar arteries.  
Answer: 1  

Q29: The venous drainage of the hand follows directly the pathway of arterial supply.  
Answer: 0  

Q30: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the space between the vocal cords that plays a critical role in sound production.  
Answer: Rima glottidis  

Q31: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is a flap of tissue that covers the laryngeal inlet during swallowing to prevent food from entering the airway.  
Answer: Epiglottis  

Q32: The space between the visceral and parietal pleura is known as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ cavity.  
Answer: Pleural  

Q33: The left main bronchus is typically \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ than the right main bronchus.  
Answer: Longer  

Q34: The internal iliac artery has several branches, including the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ artery, which supplies the uterus.  
Answer: Uterine  

Q35: Suprapleural membrane attaches to the transverse process of vertebra:  
Answer: CVII  

Q36: From The midclavicular line to the vertebral column the inferior boundary of the visceral pleura can be approximated by a line that runs between:  
Answer: Rib VI, Rib VIII, TX  

Q37: What is pneumothorax?  
Answer: A condition where air enters the pleural cavity  

Q38: Middle mediastinum is the central compartment of the thoracic cavity and is bordered superiorly by the .......  
Answer: Plane of the sternal angle  

Q39: Blood flows from the right atrium to the right ventricle through the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ valve.  
Answer: Tricuspid  

Q40: The left ventricle pumps oxygenated blood into the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ artery, which distributes it throughout the body.  
Answer: Aorta  

Q41: Which of the following vessels is a branch of the left coronary artery?  
Answer: Circumflex artery  

Q42: All cardiac veins empty into the \_\_\_\_\_\_, which then empties into the \_\_\_\_\_\_.  
Answer: Coronary sinus; right atrium  

Q43: Which of the following parts of the cardiac conduction system is correctly matched with its location?  
Answer: SA node - right atrium near the opening of the superior vena cava  

Q44: Coronary sulcus separates:  
Answer: Atria from the ventricles  

Q45: Coronary sulcus contains:  
Answer: Right coronary artery  

Q46: A hand slipped behind the heart at its apex can be extended upwards until stopped by a line of pericardial reflection that forms the:  
Answer: Oblique pericardial sinus  

Q47: In which of the following structure drains the veins of Thabesius?  
Answer: Right atrium  

Q48: A 54-year-old patient with amyloidosis and subsequent cardiac dysrhythmias undergoes implantation with the artificial cardiac pacemaker. Which of the following conductive tissues of the heart was defective in function that required pacemaker?  
Answer: SA node  

Q49: An 8-year-old boy with an ASD presents to his pediatrician. This congenital heart defect shunts blood from the left atrium to the right atrium and causes hypertrophy of the right atrium, right ventricle and pulmonary trunk. Which of the following veins opens into the hypertrophied atrium?  
Answer: Superior vena cava  

Q50: The superior mesenteric artery primarily supplies blood to which part of the gastrointestinal tract?  
Answer: Midgut  

Q51: The inferior mesenteric artery supplies which of the following structures?  
Answer: Descending colon  

Q52: The branches of the inferior mesenteric artery include all of the following EXCEPT:  
Answer: Middle colic artery  

Q53: Which of the following arteries courses through the anatomical snuffbox?  
Answer: Radial artery  

Q54: Which branch of the abdominal aorta supplies the kidneys?  
Answer: Renal artery  

Q55: Which of the following arteries supplies the diaphragm and is considered an anterior branch of the abdominal aorta?  
Answer: Inferior phrenic artery  

Q56: The right subclavian artery arises directly from the aorta.  
Answer: 0  

Q57: The axillary artery terminates by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries.  
Answer: 0  

Q58: The brachial artery typically bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries at the level of the elbow.  
Answer: 1  

Q59: The basilic vein is considered a deep vein of the upper limb.  
Answer: 0  

Q60: The medial femoral circumflex artery supplies blood to the gluteal muscles.  
Answer: 1  

Q61: The perforating arteries are branches of the deep femoral artery that supply the posterior compartment of the thigh.  
Answer: 1  

Q62: All the hand arteries originate from two main, larger ones; the radial and ulnar arteries.  
Answer: 1  

Q63: The venous drainage of the hand follows directly the pathway of arterial supply.  
Answer: 0  

Q64: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the space between the vocal cords that plays a critical role in sound production.  
Answer: Rima glottidis  

Q65: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is a flap of tissue that covers the laryngeal inlet during swallowing to prevent food from entering the airway.  
Answer: Epiglottis  

Q66: The space between the visceral and parietal pleura is known as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ cavity.  
Answer: Pleural  

Q67: The left main bronchus is typically \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ than the right main bronchus.  
Answer: Longer  

Q68: The internal iliac artery has several branches, including the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ artery, which supplies the uterus.  
Answer: Uterine  

Q69: Which chamber of the heart has to work the hardest (pump against the highest pressure)?  
Answer: Left ventricle  

Q70: Blood leaving the left ventricle goes through which of the following valves?  
Answer: Aortic semilunar  

Q71: The "skeleton" of the heart:  
Answer: Provides internal support for the cardiac chambers  

Q72: The nasal cavities are separated from oral cavity with by the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Answer: Hard palate  

Q73: Inflammation of the heart's Pericardium is called \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Answer: Pericarditis  

Q74: The sequence of pericardial layers from superficial to deep is the fibrous, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ , and visceral pericardium  
Answer: Parietal  

Q75: Which structure does NOT lie in the coronary sulcus?  
Answer: Anterior interventricular artery  

Q76: Which of the following supplies the apex of the heart?  
Answer: Left anterior descending artery  

Q77: Cardiac veins drain into:  
Answer: Coronary sinus  

Q78: In performing a thyroidectomy, caution should be exercised when ligating (tying) the inferior thyroid artery, as it lies in a very close relationship to which nerve?  
Answer: Recurrent laryngeal  

Q79: Third branch of the aortic arch:  
Answer: Left subclavian artery  

Q80: Regarding the trachea, the following statement is false:  
Answer: The left main bronchus is more vertical than the right one  

Q81: A frail, elderly man, suspected of having widespread cancer of the lungs and bronchi, is brought in for bronchoscopic examination. The instrument is inserted into the airway, where it accidentally punctures the thin, brittle posterior wall of the diseased right main bronchus. A sudden gush of blood immediately indicates that the instrument has also torn the wall of the blood vessel immediately behind the right main bronchus, i.e., the:  
Answer: Azygos vein  

Q82: Locations of anatomic narrowing of the esophagus seen on an esophagram include all of the following EXCEPT:  
Answer: Diaphragmatic hiatus  

Q83: The cervical esophagus receives its blood supply primarily from the:  
Answer: Inferior thyroid artery  

Q84: Which of the following is not a branch of the inferior mesenteric artery?  
Answer: Ileocolic artery  

Q85: Which of the following is NOT a single visceral branch of the abdominal aorta?  
Answer: Inferior phrenic artery  

Q86: The celiac trunk branches into three major arteries. Which of the following is one of them?  
Answer: Splenic artery  

Q87: The posterior mediastinum is  
Answer: Posterior to the pericardium and anterior to the vertebral column  

Q88: The thoracic duct extends from vertebra .......... to the root of the neck  
Answer: LII  

Q89: A 45-year-old woman presents with a tumor confined to the posterior mediastinum. This could result in compression of which of the following structures?  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q90: The right subclavian artery arises directly from the aorta.  
Answer: 0  

Q91: The axillary artery terminates by dividing into the radial and ulnar arteries.  
Answer: 0  

Q92: The brachial artery typically bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries at the level of the elbow.  
Answer: 1  

Q93: The basilic vein is considered a deep vein of the upper limb.  
Answer: 0  

Q94: The iliolumbar artery supplies the lower abdominal wall and pelvic region.  
Answer: 1  

Q95: The lateral sacral artery is responsible for supplying hip joint.  
Answer: 0  

Q96: The posterior branches of the abdominal aorta are superior phrenic arteries, the lumbar arteries, and the median sacral artery  
Answer: 1  

Q97: Median sacral artery passes in an inferior direction, first over the anterior surface of the lower lumbar vertebrae and then over the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx  
Answer: 1  

Q98: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the space between the vocal cords that plays a critical role in sound production.  
Answer: Rima glottidis  

Q99: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is a flap of tissue that covers the laryngeal inlet during swallowing to prevent food from entering the airway.  
Answer: Epiglottis  

Q100: The space between the visceral and parietal pleura is known as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ cavity.  
Answer: Pleural  

Q101: The left main bronchus is typically \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ than the right main bronchus.  
Answer: Longer  

Q102: The internal iliac artery has several branches, including the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ artery, which supplies the uterus.  
Answer: Uterine  

Q103: The lateral nasal artery originates from the  
Answer: Facial artery  

Q104: The anterior and posterior ethmoidal arteries originate from the  
Answer: Ophthalmic artery  

Q105: The Pleura is a \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ membrane that surrounds the lungs.  
Answer: Serous  

Q106: The nasal cavities are separated from oral cavity with by the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Answer: Hard palate  

Q107: Inflammation of the heart's Pericardium is called \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_  
Answer: Pericarditis  

Q108: The sequence of pericardial layers from superficial to deep is the fibrous, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ , and visceral pericardium  
Answer: Parietal  

Q109: Which of the following is true?  
Answer: Left main bronchus is wider and has a more oblique course than right  

Q110: All of the following are the parts of hilum, EXCEPT:  
Answer: Superior vena cava  

Q111: Which of the following vessels is a branch of the left coronary artery?  
Answer: Left anterior descending artery  

Q112: Mediastinum contains all the following structures EXCEPT:  
Answer: Lungs  

Q113: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is tough connective tissue that defines the boundaries of the middle mediastinum.  
Answer: Fibrous pericardium  

Q114: Coronary sulcus separates:  
Answer: Atria from the ventricles  

Q115: A newborn baby is admitted to the hospital with hypoxia. Upon testing is found to have pulmonary stenosis, dextroposition of the aorta, interventricular septal defect, and the hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Which of the following is best described by these symptoms?  
Answer: Tetralogy of Fallot  

Q116: How can we distinguish pericarditis from myocardial infarction  
Answer: Pain worsens with lying flat and improves with sitting forward  

Q117: Anterior interventricular artery is located in the:  
Answer: Anterior interventricular sulcus  

Q118: Which of the following vessels arises from the abdominal aorta proximal to the celiac trunk?  
Answer: Inferior phrenic artery  

Q119: Which is NOT one of the three major branches of the coeliac trunk?  
Answer: Middle colic artery  

Q120: The superior mesenteric artery supplies abdominal organs that arise from which embryonic precursor?  
Answer: Midgut  

Q121: The posterior mediastinum is  
Answer: Posterior to the pericardium and anterior to the vertebral column  

Q122: The thoracic duct extends from vertebra .......... to the root of the neck  
Answer: LII  

Q123: A 45-year-old woman presents with a tumor confined to the posterior mediastinum. This could result in compression of which of the following structures?  
Answer: Thoracic duct  

Q124: The brachial artery typically bifurcates into the radial and ulnar arteries at the level of the elbow.  
Answer: 1  

Q125: The anterior humeral circumflex artery is a branch of the brachial artery.  
Answer: 0  

Q126: The brachial artery supplies blood to the upper limb and part of the shoulder region.  
Answer: 1  

Q127: The basilic vein is considered a deep vein of the upper limb.  
Answer: 0  

Q128: The iliolumbar artery supplies the lower abdominal wall and pelvic region.  
Answer: 1  

Q129: The lateral sacral artery is responsible for supplying hip joint.  
Answer: 0  

Q130: The posterior branches of the abdominal aorta are superior phrenic arteries, the lumbar arteries, and the median sacral artery  
Answer: 1  

Q131: Median sacral artery passes in an inferior direction, first over the anterior surface of the lower lumbar vertebrae and then over the anterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx  
Answer: 1  

Q132: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is the space between the vocal cords that plays a critical role in sound production.  
Answer: Rima glottidis  

Q133: The \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ is a flap of tissue that covers the laryngeal inlet during swallowing to prevent food from entering the airway.  
Answer: Epiglottis  

Q134: The space between the visceral and parietal pleura is known as the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ cavity.  
Answer: Pleural  

Q135: The left main bronchus is typically \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ than the right main bronchus.  
Answer: Longer  

Q136: The internal iliac artery has several branches, including the \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ artery, which supplies the uterus.  
Answer: Uterine  