Q1: Common cardinal veins return poorly oxygenated blood from the body of the embryo to the heart  
Answer: 1  

Q2: Heart begins to beat on:  
Answer: 22nd day  

Q3: The heart is derived from:  
Answer: Splanchnic mesoderm  

Q4: What leads to the closure of the foramen ovale?  
Answer: Pressure in the left atrium exceeding that in the right atrium  

Q5: The cardiovascular system begins to develop during the third week  
Answer: 1  

Q6: The primitive heart is partitioned into four separate chambers during the fourth week.  
Answer: 0  

Q7: Which two parts of the primitive heart tube form the outflow tract?  
Answer: Bulbus cordis and truncus arteriosus  

Q8: The fetal left atrium is mainly derived from the:  
Answer: Primitive pulmonary vein  

Q9: What are the long cytoplasmic processes of mesenchymal cells found along continuous capillaries and postcapillary venules called?  
Answer: C) Pericytes  

Q10: Which is the thickest layer for the veins?  
Answer: Tunica adventitia  

Q11: Which is most immature recognizable cell in myeloid series?  
Answer: Myeloblast  

Q12: Which is the most abundant plasma protein?  
Answer: Albumin  

Q13: Valves are rich with ------ fibers.  
Answer: Elastic  

Q14: Which of the following would be least likely to be found in lymph fluid?  
Answer: Red blood cells  

Q15: The isolated carboxyl-terminal portion of the heavy-chain molecules of antibodys is called the constant ------------  
Answer: Region  

Q16: The laryngotracheal diverticulum maintains communication with ________________ through the primordial laryngeal inlet.  
Answer: Pharynx  

Q17: The cranial portion of the foregut is divided by tracheoesophageal septum into:  
Answer: Ventral laryngotracheal tube and dorsal esophagus  

Q18: The connective tissue of the trachea is derived from:  
Answer: Splanchnic mesenchyme  

Q19: Early in the fifth week of human development, the connection of each bronchial bud with the trachea enlarges to form the primordia of the main bronchi.  
Answer: 1  

Q20: The olfactory epithelium covers the roof of the nasal cavity.  
Answer: 1  

Q21: The basal cells responsible for replacing olfactory neurons in every ______ month  
Answer: 1  

Q22: Surfactant counteracts surface tension of the terminal sacs by preventing alveolar collapse.  
Answer: 1  

Q23: Before birth, the primordial alveoli appear as small bulges on the walls of terminal bronchoiles.  
Answer: 1  

Q24: The visceral pleura that covers each lung is a layer of thin connective tissue and mesothelium.  
Answer: 1  

Q25: Vitelline veins carry well-oxygenated blood from the chorionic sac.  
Answer: 0  

Q26: Which division of the circulatory system is responsible for oxygenating blood in the lungs?  
Answer: Pulmonary circulation  

Q27: What kind of epithelium lines the internal surface of all components of the blood and lymphatic systems?  
Answer: B) Simple squamous  

Q28: What is the primary function of the fibrous cardiac skeleton within the heart?  
Answer: b) To separate the atrial and ventricular musculature  

Q29: Which two parts of the primitive heart tube form the outflow tract?  
Answer: Bulbus cordis and truncus arteriosus  

Q30: The fetal left atrium is mainly derived from the:  
Answer: Primitive pulmonary vein  

Q31: What are the long cytoplasmic processes of mesenchymal cells found along continuous capillaries and postcapillary venules called?  
Answer: C) Pericytes  

Q32: Which of the following is the function of endothelium:  
Answer: All of the above  

Q33: Which is the thickest layer for the veins?  
Answer: Tunica adventitia  

Q34: Capillaries are composed of the simple layer of ------ cells  
Answer: Endothelial  

Q35: The lining of lymphatic vessels is composed of which of the following cell type?  
Answer: Simple squamous epithelium  

Q36: Lymphatic capillaries converge into larger ________________ with thin walls and increasing amount of connective and muscle tissue.  
Answer: Lymphatic vessels  

Q37: The narrow opening between vocal folds is called _______________.  
Answer: Rima glottidis  

Q38: The connective tissue of the trachea is derived from:  
Answer: Splanchnic mesenchyme  

Q39: Ciliated pseudostratified columnar epithelium is found in bronchioles  
Answer: 0  

Q40: The basal cells responsible for replacing olfactory neurons in every ______ month  
Answer: 1  

Q41: How would you best describe the folding that brings the primitive heart tube into the thoracic region of the embryo?  
Answer: Cephalo-caudal folding  

Q42: How many vitelline artery derivatives remain in the adult human body?  
Answer: Three  

Q43: In the normal fetal circulation, blood from the placenta bypasses the sinusoidal plexus of the liver by way of the ductus venosus  
Answer: 1  

Q44: Abnormal origin of the right subclavian artery results from abnormal obliteration of the right 7th intersegmental artery  
Answer: 1  

Q45: Which of the following is true for atria:  
Answer: Myocardium is thinner compared to ventricles  

Q46: Which description is true for discontinues capillaries  
Answer: They permit exchange of macromolecules between tissues and blood  

Q47: Which of the following is the function of endothelium:  
Answer: All of the above  

Q48: Valves of the veins consist of thin, paired folds of _______________.  
Answer: Endothelium-covered connective tissue  

Q49: The narrow opening between vocal folds is called _______________.  
Answer: Rima glottidis  

Q50: Which type of fiber helps the trachea to adapt its shape during inspiration and expiration?  
Answer: Elastic fibers  

Q51: Tertiary bronchi are characterized by:  
Answer: Broken plates of hyaline cartilage  

Q52: The roof of the nasal cavities and the superior conchae are covered by _______________ epithelium  
Answer: Olfactory  

Q53: The pulmonary surfactant prevents alveolar collapse by increasing surface tension  
Answer: 0  

Q54: Capillary beds are supplied by one or more terminal arteriole branches called metarterioles.  
Answer: 1